1. Water Res. 2025 Mar 26;281:123563. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2025.123563. Online 
ahead of print.

Exploiting microplastics and the plastisphere for the surveillance of human 
pathogenic bacteria discharged into surface waters in wastewater effluent.

Woodford L(1), Messer LF(2), Ormsby MJ(2), White HL(2), Fellows R(2), Quilliam 
RS(2).

Author information:
(1)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA, UK. Electronic address: 
luke.woodford@stirling.ac.uk.
(2)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA, UK.

Discharge from wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) is a well-characterised 
source of human pathogens and antimicrobial resistance genes entering the 
environment. However, determining whether pathogens released from effluent into 
surface waters are viable, and consequently pose a risk to human health, is 
hindered by the use of transient grab-sampling monitoring approaches. Here we 
present a novel surveillance system using low-cost microparticles (polyethylene, 
cork and rubber) deployed upstream and downstream of a WWTP effluent pipe, that 
exploits the ability of bacterial pathogens to form biofilms. Using quantitative 
culture-based and molecular methods, viable E. coli, Klebsiella spp., 
Citrobacter spp., and Enterococcus spp. were identified after only 24-hour of 
deployment. Moreover, these pathogens were continually present at each timepoint 
(2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 14 and 23 days) as biofilm communities matured, with all 
pathogens detected at higher concentrations downstream of the WWTP effluent 
pipe. Long-read whole genome sequencing revealed a suite of plasmids, virulence 
genes and antimicrobial resistance genes in bacterial pathogens isolated from 
biofilms formed downstream of the effluent pipe. Furthermore, recognising that 
pathogens are typically present at proportionally low concentrations within 
mixed biofilm communities, total biofilm pathogenicity was confirmed using a 
Galleria mellonella infection model. Full-length 16S rRNA gene sequencing 
revealed that human pathogens present in microplastic biofilms (the 
'plastisphere') dominated the microbial community of infected G. mellonella 
larvae within 24 hr, suggesting these bacteria remained highly virulent. 
Overall, this study demonstrated the efficacy of an easy-to-deploy system for 
the surveillance and rapid detection of pathogenic bacteria being discharged 
from point-source pollution. We envisage that if used as part of an integrated 
environmental management approach, this approach could help to reduce the public 
and environmental health risks of human pathogens and antimicrobial resistance 
genes, by monitoring viable human pathogens entering surface waters.

Crown Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2025.123563
PMID: 40184703

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2025 Apr 1;294:118074. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2025.118074. Epub 2025 Mar 20.

Low and high-density polyethylene and expanded polystyrene biodegradation by the 
greater wax moth Galleria mellonella L reveals a key role of the gut microbiome.

Kehkashan(1), Hussain A(2), Murtaza M(1), Lee GJ(3), Mun BG(4), Yun BW(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan, Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa 23200, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Entomology, Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan, Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa 23200, Pakistan; Department of Applied Biosciences, Kyungpook 
National University, Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
adilhussain@awkum.edu.pk.
(3)Department of Applied Biosciences, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 
41566, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Entomology, Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan, Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa 23200, Pakistan; Department of Environmental and Biological 
Chemistry, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Applied Biosciences, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 
41566, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: bwyun@knu.ac.kr.

Polyethylene (PE) is a ubiquitous pollutant that takes long time to degrade 
naturally. PE breaks down into persistent micro- or nano-plastics that are even 
more dangerous for the environment and human health. Here we investigated the 
ability of the wax worm Galleria mellonella (Lepidoptera, Pyralidae) to degrade 
two different types of PE and expanded polystyrene (EPS). Results showed a 
reduction of up to 69 %, 73 %, and 50 % in the weight of LDPE, HDPE, and EPS, 
respectively. Antibiotic treatments indicated that PE consumption is highly 
dependent upon an intact population of at least eight different bacteria from 
the Enterococcus, Pseudomonas, and Bacillus genera identified by 16S rRNA 
sequencing. Antibiotic treatment reduced the gut bacterial population, 
negatively affecting larval growth. The PE-only diet severely affected the 
growth and development of G. mellonella larvae, pupae, and male/female adults. 
SEM analysis of gut bacteria co-incubated LDPE discs revealed biofilm formation 
and PE biodegradation by all the bacteria in the culture, supporting the great 
potential of these bacteria for plastic biodegradation. FTIR analysis of frass 
after feeding on PE only revealed significantly strong PE biodegradation signals 
as results showed 33 peaks of strong (S) and medium (M) intensity corresponding 
to wave numbers with PE biodegradation signatures ranging between 1239.50 cm-1 
to 3077.69 cm-1 coding for vinyl hydrocarbons, vinyl ether, vinylene, vinylene 
trisubst., ketones, ethers, aldehydes, acrylate, diazo ketones and epoxides 
which is a convincing evidence of PE metabolism. Further research is required to 
determine the practical implications of wax worm larvae for plastic degradation 
in the environment.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2025.118074
PMID: 40118017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. Sci Total Environ. 2025 Mar 15;969:178879. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2025.178879. 
Epub 2025 Feb 28.

Can the insects Galleria mellonella and Tenebrio molitor be the future of 
plastic biodegradation?

Burd BS(1), Mussagy CU(2), Bebber C(3), Sant'Ana Pegorin Brasil G(4), Dos Santos 
LS(5), Guerra NB(6), Persinoti GF(7), Jucaud V(8), Goldbeck R(9), Herculano 
RD(10).

Author information:
(1)Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Km 1 Araraquara Jaú Highway, 14800-903 
Araraquara, SP, Brazil; Institute of Chemistry, São Paulo State University 
(UNESP), 55 Prof Francisco Degni Street, 14800-900 Araraquara, SP, Brazil. 
Electronic address: bsburd@homail.com.
(2)Escuela de Agronomía, Facultad de Ciencias Agronómicas y de los Alimentos, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Chile.
(3)Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Km 1 Araraquara Jaú Highway, 14800-903 
Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(4)Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Km 1 Araraquara Jaú Highway, 14800-903 
Araraquara, SP, Brazil; Institute of Chemistry, São Paulo State University 
(UNESP), 55 Prof Francisco Degni Street, 14800-900 Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(5)Faculty of Philosophy, Sciences and Languages of Ribeirão Preto, Universidade 
de São Paulo, University (USP), 3900 Bandeirantes Avenue, 14.040-901 Ribeirão 
Preto, SP, Brazil.
(6)School of Science, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 14-01 Eng. Luiz 
Edmundo Carrijo Coube, Avenue, Bauru, SP, Brazil.
(7)Brazilian Biorenewables National Laboratory (LNBR), Brazilian Center for 
Research in Energy and Materials (CNPEM), Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(8)Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, 
Los Angeles, CA 90064, USA.
(9)Bioprocess and Metabolic Engineering Laboratory, School of Food Engineering, 
University of Campinas, UNICAMP Monteiro Lobato no. 80, Campinas, São Paulo 
13083-862, Brazil.
(10)Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Km 1 Araraquara Jaú Highway, 14800-903 
Araraquara, SP, Brazil; Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 
11507 W Olympic Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90064, USA; Autonomy Research Center for 
STEAHM (ARCS), California State University, Northridge, CA 91324, USA. 
Electronic address: rondinelli.herculano@unesp.br.

Plastics have been an integral part of human lives, enhancing the functionality 
and safety of many everyday products, contributing significantly to our overall 
well-being. However, petroleum-based plastics can take hundreds or even 
thousands of years to decompose, resulting in an unprecedented plastic waste 
accumulation in the environment. Widely used conventional plastic disposal 
methods as landfilling and incineration are also environmentally harmful, 
frequently leading to soil/water contamination and the release of microplastics. 
To overcome these limitations, researchers have been investigating novel 
sustainable alternatives for plastic waste management, such as the use of 
microorganisms, microbial-based enzymes, and, more recently, some insect larvae, 
being Galleria mellonella and Tenebrio molitor the most promising ones. In this 
review, we explore different methods of plastic waste disposal focusing on 
recent discoveries regarding biological plastic degradation using insects as 
alternative methods. We also discuss the plastic degradation mechanisms employed 
by G. mellonella and T. molitor larvae known so far, as salivary enzymes and the 
pool of microorganisms in their gut. Finally, this review highlights key 
challenges in plastic biodegradation, such as standardization and experimental 
comparability, while proposing innovative perspectives like using insects as 
bioreactors and exploring unexplored research directions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2025.178879
PMID: 40022971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: B. B. Burd reports financial 
support was provided by Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Education 
Personnel (CAPES). R. D. Herculano reports financial support was provided by São 
Paulo State University (UNESP) and State of Sao Paulo Research Foundation 
(FAPESP). If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


4. Insects. 2025 Feb 5;16(2):165. doi: 10.3390/insects16020165.

Using Insect Larvae and Their Microbiota for Plastic Degradation.

Vital-Vilchis I(1), Karunakaran E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering, The University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield S1 3JD, UK.

Plastic pollution is one of the biggest current global threats to the 
environment given that petroleum-based plastic is recalcitrant and can stay in 
the environment for decades, even centuries, depending on the specific plastic 
type. Since less than 10% of all plastic made is recycled, and the other 
solutions (such as incineration or landfill storage) are pollutant methods, new, 
environmentally friendly solutions are needed. In this regard, the latest 
biotechnological discovery on this topic is the capability of insect larvae to 
use plastic polymers as carbon feedstock. This present review describes the most 
relevant information on the insect larvae capable of degrading plastic, mainly 
Galleria mellonella (Fabricius, 1798), Tenebrio molitor (Linnaeus, 1758), and 
Zophobas atratus (Fabricius, 1776), and also adds new information about other 
less commonly studied "plastivore" insects such as termites. This review covers 
the literature from the very first work describing plastic degradation by larvae 
published in 2014 all the way to the very latest research available (till June 
2024), focusing on the identification of a wide variety of plastic-degrading 
microorganisms isolated from larvae guts and on the understanding of the 
potential molecular mechanisms present for degradation to take place. It also 
describes the latest discoveries, which include the identification of novel 
enzymes from waxworm saliva.

DOI: 10.3390/insects16020165
PMCID: PMC11856541
PMID: 40003794

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Bioresour Technol. 2025 Apr;422:132149. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2025.132149. 
Epub 2025 Feb 12.

Interaction between Tetrabromobisphenol A and invertebrates in rigid 
polyurethane biodegradation: Inhibitory effects, chemical transformation and 
microbial adaptation.

Zhu P(1), Xie T(2), Gong S(2), Jiang H(2), Zhang L(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
xhnzp@shu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
lezhang@shu.edu.cn.

Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) is a brominated flame retardant widely used in 
electronic plastics, but its effects on invertebrate-mediated plastic 
biodegradation remain unclear. This study investigated the impact of TBBPA on 
the biodegradation of rigid polyurethane (RPU) by Galleria mellonella and 
Tenebrio molitor larvae, and the effects of both larvae on the chemical 
transformation of TBBPA. Results showed that TBBPA inhibited the uptake of RPU 
by both larvae, resulting in a decrease of intestinal protein-like fluorescence 
intensity, reduced the concentrations of certain metabolic by-products of RPU, 
and inhibited the growth of RPU degradation related bacteria. Most TBBPA was 
excreted by both larvae, and a small fraction was transformed into less toxic 
brominated organic compounds. Sequencing analysis suggested that 
Enterobacteriaceae, Enterococcus, and non-dominant gut bacteria might play a 
role in TBBPA degradation. This study provides detailed insights into the 
interactions involved in the biodegradation of TBBPA-containing RPU by two 
invertebrate species.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2025.132149
PMID: 39952618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


6. J Hazard Mater. 2025 May 5;488:137219. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2025.137219. Epub 
2025 Jan 27.

A novel Gordonia sp. PS3 isolated from the gut of Galleria mellonella larvae: 
Mechanism of polystyrene biodegradation and environmental toxicological 
evaluation.

Xu L(1), An X(1), Jiang H(1), Pei R(1), Li Z(1), Wen J(1), Pi W(1), Zhang Q(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Bioscience and Bioengineering, Jiangxi Agricultural University, 
Nanchang 330045, China.
(2)College of Bioscience and Bioengineering, Jiangxi Agricultural University, 
Nanchang 330045, China. Electronic address: zqh_net@163.com.

Plastic pollution is a global concern, with polystyrene (PS) being a major 
source of plastic waste. In this study, a PS-degrading bacterial strain, 
Gordonia sp. PS3, was isolated from the gut of Galleria mellonella larvae. After 
40 days, strain PS3 exhibited a 33.59 ± 1.12 % degradation rate of 
PS-microplastics (PS-MPs). The biodegradation mechanism of PS by strain PS3 was 
investigated using genomics, molecular docking, and metabolomics. Degradation 
resulted in a significant decrease in molecular weight, disappearance of 
characteristic aromatic peaks, and the appearance of new functional groups 
(e.g., hydroxyl and carbonyl), indicating oxidative depolymerization and 
enhanced hydrophilicity. Four key enzymes involved in PS degradation were 
identified, with alkane 1-monooxygenase initiating cleavage of C-C bonds in PS 
and cytochrome P450 monooxygenase catalyzing oxidation of the aromatic ring. 
Metabolomics analysis revealed upregulation of proline, branched-chain amino 
acids, and polyamines, indicating oxidative stress response and energy 
acquisition during PS degradation. The PS degradation products showed no 
significant adverse effects on Arabidopsis thaliana growth, and PS residues were 
less harmful to G. mellonella larvae than untreated PS-MPs. This study presents 
a novel strain for PS biodegradation and provides new insights into the 
microbial degradation mechanism of PS and the safety of its degradation 
products.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2025.137219
PMID: 39893981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


7. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Nov 26;25(23):12720. doi: 10.3390/ijms252312720.

In Vitro and In Vivo Translational Insights into the Intraoperative Use of 
Antiseptics and Lavage Solutions Against Microorganisms Causing Orthopedic 
Infections.

Dudek B(1), Brożyna M(1), Karoluk M(2), Frankiewicz M(2), Migdał P(3), 
Szustakiewicz K(4), Matys T(5), Wiater A(6), Junka A(1).

Author information:
(1)"P.U.M.A.", Platform for Unique Model Application, Department of Pharmacy, 
Wroclaw Medical University, Borowska 211, 50-534 Wroclaw, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Department of Laser Technologies, 
Automation and Production Organization, Wrocław University of Science and 
Technology, Ignacego Łukasiewicza 5, 50-371 Wroclaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Bees Breeding, Institute of Animal Husbandry and Breeding, 
Faculty of Biology and Animal Science, Wroclaw University of Environmental and 
Life Sciences, Chełmońskiego 38C, 51-630 Wroclaw, Poland.
(4)Department of Polymer Engineering and Technology, Faculty of Chemistry, 
Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Wyb. Wyspianskiego 27, 50-370 
Wroclaw, Poland.
(5)The Department and Clinic of Angiology and Internal Medicine, Wroclaw Medical 
University, Borowska 213, 50-556 Wroclaw, Poland.
(6)Department of Industrial and Environmental Microbiology, Institute of 
Biological Sciences, Faculty of Biology and Biotechnology, Maria 
Curie-Skłodowska University, Akademicka 19, 20-033 Lublin, Poland.

The growing antibiotic resistance of microorganisms causing postoperative 
infections following orthopedic surgeries underscores the urgent need for 
localized antiseptic and lavage delivery systems to enhance infection control. 
This study evaluates the in vitro effectiveness of antiseptic and lavage 
solutions-including polyhexanide, povidone-iodine, low-concentrated 
hypochlorite, Ringer's solution, and saline-against Staphylococcus epidermidis, 
Staphylococcus aureus MRSA, Cutibacterium acnes, Corynebacterium amycolatum, 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Candida albicans. Using microplate models (Minimum 
Inhibitory Concentration, Minimum Biofilm Eradication Concentration, and 
Biofilm-Oriented Antiseptic Test assays), flow-based models (Bioflux system), 
and surfaces relevant to orthopedic implants (e.g., stainless steel 
disks/screws, Co-Cr-Mo, Ti-Al-Nb orthopedic alloys, and 
ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene), as well as a bio-nano-cellulose 
scaffold representing tissue, we assessed the solutions' activity. The 
cytotoxicity of the solutions was evaluated using osteoblast and keratinocyte 
cell lines, with additional in vivo insights gained through the Galleria 
mellonella larval model. The results show that polyhexanide-based solutions 
outperformed povidone-iodine in biofilm eradication in most tests applied, 
particularly on complex surfaces, whereas iodine demonstrated higher 
cytotoxicity in applied in vitro and in vivo tests. Low-concentration 
hypochlorite solutions exhibited minimal antibiofilm activity but also showed no 
cytotoxicity in cell line and G. mellonella larval models. These findings 
highlight the importance of careful antiseptic selection and rinsing protocols 
to balance infection control efficacy with tissue compatibility in orthopedic 
applications.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252312720
PMCID: PMC11641374
PMID: 39684431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


8. BMC Microbiol. 2024 Nov 30;24(1):512. doi: 10.1186/s12866-024-03642-5.

Comparative genomics and virulence potential of Campylobacter coli strains 
isolated from different sources over 25 years in Brazil.

Gomes CN(#)(1), Felice AG(#)(2), Pereira GDN(1), Ceballos VAS(2), Soares SC(2), 
Tonani L(1), Barião PHG(1), Kress MRVZ(1), Duque SDS(3), Balkey M(4), Allard 
MW(#)(4), Falcão JP(#)(5).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Análises Clínicas, Toxicológicas E Bromatológicas, Faculdade 
de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto- Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto/São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Microbiologia, Imunologia E Parasitologia, Instituto de 
Ciências Biológicas E Naturais, Universidade Federal Do Triângulo Mineiro, 
Uberaba, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(3)Fundação Oswaldo Cruz- FIOCRUZ, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz-IOC, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil.
(4)Division of Microbiology, Office of Regulatory Science, Center for Food 
Safety and Applied Nutrition, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, College Park, 
MD, USA.
(5)Departamento de Análises Clínicas, Toxicológicas E Bromatológicas, Faculdade 
de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto- Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto/São Paulo, Brazil. jufalcao@fcfrp.usp.br.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Campylobacter spp. have been reported as a common cause of 
gastroenteritis in humans in many countries. However, in Brazil there is 
insufficient data to estimate the impact of Campylobacter in public health. In 
light of the importance of this foodborne pathogen, the aim of this study was to 
perform comparative analyses on 80 Brazilian Campylobacter coli genomes isolated 
from human feces, animals, the environment, and food. Methods include Average 
Nucleotide Identity (ANI), Gegenees, genomic plasticity, presence of 
pathogenicity, resistance, and metabolic islands. In addition, virulence 
analysis in Galleria mellonella were also performed for 18 selected C. coli 
strains.
RESULTS: The ANI values confirmed that all strains belonged to the C. coli 
species. Phylogenetic analyses demonstrated the evolutionary relationships among 
the studied strains, highlighting the genetic diversity among them. The 
differences in shared and deleted regions of the studied genomes were 
demonstrated, with 16 genomic islands identified, including 4 metabolic islands, 
4 resistance islands, and 8 pathogenicity islands. We detected genes associated 
with chemotaxis, exotoxin production, antimicrobial resistance, stress response, 
defense mechanisms, and intracellular survival among these islands, highlighting 
the pathogenic potential of these strains. Two strains isolated from human and 
one from animal showed high virulence, killing 100% of Galleria mellonella 
larvae. Two strains isolated from the environment and two isolated from food 
killed 70-90% of the larvae and were classified as virulent. Three strains 
isolated from animal, two from human, two from the environment and one from food 
killed 30% to 60% of the larvae and were considered of intermediate virulence. 
Campylobacter jejuni ATCC 33291, one strain isolated from human and one from 
food killed 10 to 20% of the larvae and were considered of low virulence. One 
strain isolated from food did not kill any larvae and was considered avirulent.
CONCLUSIONS: The results obtained highlighted the genetic diversity, pathogenic 
and virulence potential of many of the C. coli strains studied, contributing for 
a more complete characterization of this important pathogen recognized as a 
cause of human gastroenteritis.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-024-03642-5
PMCID: PMC11607955
PMID: 39614143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Ethical approval was granted from the Ethics Committee of the 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto – USP CAAE: 
38362320.2.0000.5403. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


9. J Environ Manage. 2024 Dec;372:123038. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.123038. Epub 
2024 Nov 19.

Harnessing insects mediated plastic biodegradation: Current insight and future 
directions.

Vishnu Murthy JS(1), Keerthana A(2), Logeswaran K(3), Das A(4), Choudhury S(5), 
Ramakrishna BG(1), Chowdhury S(5), Aggarwal H(5), Saravanan S(2), Pal A(6), 
Dubey VK(7), Kumar V(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Entomology, College of Agriculture, Vellanikkara, 
Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur, 680656, Kerala, India.
(2)Department of Entomology, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Lawley Road, 
Coimbatore, 641003, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Division of Entomology and Nematology, Indian Institute of Horticultural 
Research, Bengaluru, 560089, Karnataka, India.
(4)Department of Entomology, College of Agriculture, Assam Agricultural 
University, Jorhat, 785013, Assam, India.
(5)Department of Entomology, College of Agriculture, Punjab Agricultural 
University, Ludhiana, 141004, India.
(6)Department of Entomology, Post Graduate College of Agriculture, Dr. Rajendra 
Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa, Samastipur, 848125, Bihar, India.
(7)School of Agriculture and Veterinary Science, Shridhar University, Pilani, 
333031, Rajasthan, India. Electronic address: 
vinod.kumar.dubey@shridharuniversity.ac.in.
(8)Department of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Jute Research Station 
Katihar, Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Bhagalpur, 854103, Bihar, India.

Plastic polymers pose a significant challenge due to their resistance to 
degradation, resulting in their persistent accumulation in the environment and 
exacerbating a critical environmental concern. Urgent innovation and novel 
management technologies are essential to tackle this issue. Plastic 
biodegradation, distinguished by its environmentally friendly and safe 
attributes, has garnered substantial attention as a viable solution. Insects are 
pivotal in this process, utilizing their gut microbes to facilitate plastic 
degradation. The enzymatic action within the digestive tracts of diverse insect 
hosts and their microbial symbionts contributes to the breakdown of these 
polymers. This comprehensive review delves into the current landscape and 
strategies aimed at combating plastic pollution, with a specific focus on the 
involvement of insects such as mealworms (Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus), superworms 
(Zophobas atratus Blanchard), greater wax moths (Galleria mellonella Linnaeus), 
and various other insect species in the degradation of plastics. This review 
explores the different insects involved in plastic degradation, the mechanisms 
by which insects degrade plastics and delineates the characteristics of 
resultant degradable products. Furthermore, it investigates the future potential 
for plastic degradation by insects and examines the prospective developmental 
pathways for degradable plastics. Ultimately, this review provides an array of 
solutions by using various insects to pervasive the issue of plastic pollution.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.123038
PMID: 39566205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests:The authors declare that they have 
no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


10. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:136264. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136264. Epub 
2024 Oct 23.

Enzymatic oxidation of polyethylene by Galleria mellonella intestinal cytochrome 
P450s.

Son JS(1), Lee S(1), Hwang S(2), Jeong J(3), Jang S(1), Gong J(3), Choi JY(4), 
Je YH(5), Ryu CM(6).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Phytobacteriology Laboratory, Infectious Disease Research Center, 
KRIBB, Daejeon 34141 South Korea.
(2)Disease Target Structure Research Center, Division of Biomedical Research, 
KRIBB, Daejeon 34141 South Korea.
(3)Environmental Disease Research Center, KRIBB, Daejeon 34141, South Korea; 
KRIBB School, University of Science and Technology, 217, Daejeon 34113, South 
Korea.
(4)Research Institute for Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National 
University, Seoul 08826, South Korea; Center for Agricultural Microorganism and 
Enzyme, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, South Korea.
(5)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, College of Agriculture & Life 
Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, South Korea; Research 
Institute for Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul 
08826, South Korea; Center for Agricultural Microorganism and Enzyme, Seoul 
National University, Seoul 08826, South Korea.
(6)Molecular Phytobacteriology Laboratory, Infectious Disease Research Center, 
KRIBB, Daejeon 34141 South Korea; KRIBB School, University of Science and 
Technology, 217, Daejeon 34113, South Korea; Department of Pediatrics, 
University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093-0380, USA. Electronic 
address: cmryu@kribb.re.kr.

Polyethylene is widely used but highly resistant to biodegradation, owing to its 
composition of only a hydrocarbon backbone. For biodegradation to occur, 
oxidation within the polymer needs to be initiated. Galleria mellonella was the 
first insect discovered to autonomously oxidize polyethylene without the aid of 
gut microbes. However, the specific enzyme remains unidentified. Here, we 
identified for the first time two polyethylene oxidation enzyme candidates of 
cytochrome P450 (CYP) 6B2-GP04 and CYP6B2-13G08 from the G. mellonella midgut. 
Both candidate clones oxidized polyethylene efficiently, generating short-chain 
aliphatic compounds, with CYP6B2-GP04 exhibiting higher activity than 
CYP6B2-13G08 in yeast and insect cells. In silico structural modeling approaches 
revealed that the CYP6B2-GP04 Phe118 was essential for interacting with 
hydrocarbons, which was further validated by mutating phenylalanine to glycine. 
Furthermore, directed enzyme evolution led to the identification of an enzyme 
variant with significantly increased oxidation efficiency. Our findings offer 
promising enzyme-based solutions for polyethylene biodegradation, potentially 
mitigating polyethylene-driven plastic pollution.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136264
PMID: 39500186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


11. BMC Microbiol. 2024 Oct 10;24(1):400. doi: 10.1186/s12866-024-03564-2.

Virulence plasmid with IroBCDN deletion promoted cross-regional transmission of 
ST11-KL64 carbapenem-resistant hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae in central 
China.

Hong HX(1)(2), Huo BH(1)(2), Xiang TX(3), Wei DD(1)(4), Huang QS(1), Liu P(1), 
Zhang W(5), Xu Y(6)(7), Liu Y(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Medical Center of Burn Plastic and Wound 
Repair, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang 
University, Yong Wai Zheng Jie No. 17, Nanchang, 330006, PR China.
(2)School of Public Health, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, Bayi 
Avenue No. 461, Nanchang, 330006, PR China.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi, 330006, PR China.
(4)China-Japan Friendship Jiang Xi Hospital, National Regional Center for 
Respiratory Medicine, Nanchang City, Jiangxi, 330006, PR China.
(5)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang University, Yong Wai Zheng Jie No. 17, 
Nanchang, 330006, PR China.
(6)School of Public Health, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, Bayi 
Avenue No. 461, Nanchang, 330006, PR China. 344803452@qq.com.
(7)Department of Laboratory, First People's Hospital of Jiujiang City, Taling 
South Road No.48, Jiujiang, Jiangxi Province, 332000, PR China. 
344803452@qq.com.
(8)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Medical Center of Burn Plastic and Wound 
Repair, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang 
University, Yong Wai Zheng Jie No. 17, Nanchang, 330006, PR China. 
ly13767160474@sina.com.
(9)China-Japan Friendship Jiang Xi Hospital, National Regional Center for 
Respiratory Medicine, Nanchang City, Jiangxi, 330006, PR China. 
ly13767160474@sina.com.
(10)Jiangxi Medicine Academy of Nutrition and Health Management, Nanchang, 
Jiangxi, 330006, PR China. ly13767160474@sina.com.

BACKGROUND: Carbapenem-resistant and hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae 
(CR-hvKP) caused infections of high mortality and brought a serious impact on 
public health. This study aims to evaluate the epidemiology, resistance and 
virulence characteristics of CR-hvKP and to identify potential drivers of 
cross-regional transmission in different regions of China, in order to provide a 
basis for developing targeted prevention measures.
METHODS: Clinical K. pneumoniae strains were collected from Jiujiang and 
Nanchang in Jiangxi province between November 2021 to June 2022. Clinical data 
of patients (age, sex, source of infection, and diagnosis) were also gathered. 
We characterized these strains for their genetic relatedness using PFGE, 
antimicrobial and virulence plasmid structures using whole-genome sequencing, 
and toxicity using Galleria mellonella infection model.
RESULTS: Among 609 strains, 45 (7.4%) CR-hvKP were identified, while the 
strains. isolated from Nanchang and Jiujiang accounted for 10.05% (36/358) and 
3.59% (9/251). We observed that ST11-KL64 CR-hvKP had an overwhelming epidemic 
dominance in these two regions. Significant genetic diversity was identified 
among all ST11-KL64 CR-hvKP cross-regional transmission between Nanchang and 
Jiujiang and this diversity served as the primary driver of the dissemination of 
clonal groups. Virulence genes profile revealed that ST11-KL64 CR-hvKP might 
harbour incomplete pLVPK-like plasmids and primarily evolved from CRKP by 
acquiring the hypervirulence plasmid. We found the predominance of 
truncated-IncFIB/IncHI1B type virulence plasmids with a 25 kb fragment deletion 
that encoded iroBCDN clusters.
CONCLUSION: ST11-KL64 is the most cross-regional prevalent type CR-hvKPs in 
Jiangxi province, which mainly evolved from CRKPs by acquiring a 
truncated-IncHI1B/IncFIB virulence plasmid with the deletion of iroBCDN. 
Stricter surveillance and control measures are urgently needed to prevent the 
epidemic transmission of ST11-KL64 CR-hvKP.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-024-03564-2
PMCID: PMC11465609
PMID: 39385085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


12. Nat Commun. 2024 Oct 1;15(1):8501. doi: 10.1038/s41467-024-52665-z.

Revisiting the activity of two poly(vinyl chloride)- and polyethylene-degrading 
enzymes.

Stepnov AA(1), Lopez-Tavera E(1), Klauer R(2), Lincoln CL(3)(4), Chowreddy 
RR(5), Beckham GT(3)(4), Eijsink VGH(1), Solomon K(2), Blenner M(6), 
Vaaje-Kolstad G(7).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, NMBU - Norwegian 
University of Life Sciences, Ås, Norway.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Delaware, 
Newark, DE, USA.
(3)Renewable Resources and Enabling Sciences Center, National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory, Golden, CO, 80401, USA.
(4)BOTTLE Consortium, Golden, CO, 80401, USA.
(5)Norner Research AS, Porsgrunn, NO-3920, Norway.
(6)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Delaware, 
Newark, DE, USA. blenner@udel.edu.
(7)Faculty of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, NMBU - Norwegian 
University of Life Sciences, Ås, Norway. gustav.vaaje-kolstad@nmbu.no.

Biocatalytic degradation of non-hydrolyzable plastics is a rapidly growing field 
of research, driven by the global accumulation of waste. Enzymes capable of 
cleaving the carbon-carbon bonds in synthetic polymers are highly sought-after 
as they may provide tools for environmentally friendly plastic recycling. 
Despite some reports of oxidative enzymes acting on non-hydrolyzable plastics, 
including polyethylene or poly(vinyl chloride), the notion that these materials 
are susceptible to efficient enzymatic degradation remains controversial, partly 
driven by a general lack of studies independently reproducing previous 
observations. Here, we attempt to replicate two recent studies reporting that 
deconstruction of polyethylene and poly(vinyl chloride) can be achieved using an 
insect hexamerin from Galleria mellonella (so-called "Ceres") or a bacterial 
catalase-peroxidase from Klebsiella sp., respectively. Reproducing previously 
described experiments, we do not observe any activity on plastics using multiple 
reaction conditions and multiple substrate types. Digging deeper into the 
discrepancies between the previous data and our observations, we show how and 
why the original experimental results may have been misinterpreted.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-024-52665-z
PMCID: PMC11445424
PMID: 39353919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


13. Insects. 2024 Sep 16;15(9):704. doi: 10.3390/insects15090704.

Effect of Co-Diet Supplementation on Biodegradation of Polyethylene by Galleria 
mellonella L. (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).

Mahfooz A(1), Yasin M(1), Qayyum MA(2), Abbasi A(3), Hashem A(4), Almutairi 
KF(5), Abd Allah EF(5), Farhan M(6), Aqueel MA(1), Subhan M(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Faculty of Agriculture and Environment, The Islamia 
University of Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur 63100, Pakistan.
(2)Institute of Plant Protection, Muhammad Nawaz Sharif-University of 
Agriculture, Multan 66000, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Entomology, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad 38040, 
Pakistan.
(4)Botany and Microbiology Department, College of Science, King Saud University, 
P.O. Box. 2460, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Plant Production Department, College of Food and Agricultural Sciences, King 
Saud University, P.O. Box. 2460, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(6)College of Plant Protection, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, China.
(7)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, The Women University 
Multan, Multan 66000, Pakistan.

Pollution coming from plastic polymers, particularly polyethylene (PE), poses a 
serious threat to both humans and animals. The biodegradation of plastics 
facilitated by insects is a crucial and eco-friendly approach that can be 
employed to combat this global concern. Recently, the larvae of the greater wax 
moth Galleria mellonella (L.) have been recognized as avid 'plastivores'. The 
current study was aimed at evaluating the feeding efficiency of G. mellonella 
larvae on PEs of various densities with a co-diet supplementation of wheat germ 
+ honey and beeswax. The results reveal that maximum PE consumption (9.98 ± 1.25 
mg) was recorded in the case of 1.0 mm thick PE after a 24 h interval; however, 
the same scenario also achieved the greatest reduction in larval weight (27.79 ± 
2.02 mg). A significant reduction in PE mass (5.87 ± 1.44 mg) was also observed 
in 1.0 mm PE when fed beeswax; however, the larvae experienced minimal weight 
loss (9.59 ± 3.81 mg). The larvae exhibited a higher PE consumption in 1.0 mm 
PE, indicating that the lower the density of PE, the greater the consumed area. 
Moreover, the biodegradation levels were notably higher within the 24 h 
interval. In conclusion, these findings suggest that the density of PEs and the 
supplementation of the co-diet have an impact on PE biodegradation. 
Additionally, the utilization of G. mellonella for the biodegradation of PE 
proves effective when combined with beeswax, resulting in minimal weight loss of 
the larvae. Our findings offer initial insights into how Galleria mellonella 
larvae biodegrade polyethylene (PE) of four different densities, along with 
co-diet supplementation. This approach helps us evaluate how varying densities 
affect degradation rates and provides a better understanding of the larvae's 
capabilities. Additionally, our observations at three specific time intervals 
(24, 48, and 72 h) allow us to identify the time required for achieving 
degradation rates. Through examining these time points, our method offers 
valuable insights into the initial phases of plastic consumption and 
biodegradation.

DOI: 10.3390/insects15090704
PMCID: PMC11432048
PMID: 39336672

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


14. Insects. 2024 Aug 28;15(9):645. doi: 10.3390/insects15090645.

Consumption and Digestion of Plastics by Greater Hive Moth Larvae.

Arias-González AF(1), Gómez-Méndez LD(2), Sáenz-Aponte A(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Control Biológico, Grupo de Biología de Plantas y Sistemas 
Productivos, Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias, Pontificia 
Universidad Javeriana, Cra/# 43-82, Bogotá D.C. 110231, Colombia.
(2)Laboratorio de Microbiología Ambiental y de Suelos, Grupo de Biotecnología 
Ambiental e Industrial (GBAI), Departamento de Microbiología, Facultad de 
Ciencias, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá D.C. 110231, Colombia.

The accumulation and unsustainable management of plastic waste generate 
environmental pollution that affects ecosystems, wildlife, and human health. We 
studied the possibility of using the consumption and digestion of 
oxo-biodegradable, compostable plastics and polypropylene from face masks by the 
fifth-instar larvae of G. mellonella as a strategy for the sustainable 
management of plastic waste. We used Fourier transform infrared 
spectrophotometry (FTIR) to determine the percentage of consumption and presence 
of microplastics in the digestive tract and excreta for 10 treatments evaluated 
for 135 h. The effects of plastics on the continuity of the life cycle of the 
greater hive moth were also determined. We established that the larvae 
fragmented and consumed 35.2 ± 23% of the plastics evaluated, with significant 
differences between treatments. Larvae were able to consume more of the 
intermediate layers of masks (86.31%) than the other plastics. However, none of 
the plastics were digested. Instead, microplastics accumulated in the excreta, 
resulting in nutritional deficits that affected the continuity of the life 
cycle, including the induction of the early formation of pupae after 24 h and a 
reduction in the number of eggs laid by the females.

DOI: 10.3390/insects15090645
PMCID: PMC11432514
PMID: 39336613

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


15. Environ Pollut. 2024 Oct 1;358:124464. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.124464. Epub 
2024 Jul 2.

The plastisphere can protect Salmonella Typhimurium from UV stress under 
simulated environmental conditions.

Ormsby MJ(1), Woodford L(2), White HL(2), Fellows R(2), Quilliam RS(2).

Author information:
(1)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA, UK. Electronic address: 
Michael.ormsby1@stir.ac.uk.
(2)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA, UK.

Plastic waste is found with increasing frequency in the environment, in low- and 
middle-income countries. Plastic pollution has increased concurrently with both 
economic development and rapid urbanisation, amplifying the effects of 
inadequate waste management. Distinct microbial communities can quickly colonise 
plastic surfaces in what is collectively known as the 'plastisphere'. The 
plastisphere can act as a reservoir for human pathogenic bacteria, including 
Salmonella enterica sp. (such as S. Typhimurium), which can persist for long 
periods, retain pathogenicity, and pose an increased public health risk. Through 
employing a novel mesocosm setup, we have shown here that the plastisphere 
provides enhanced protection against environmental pressures such as ultraviolet 
(UV) radiation and allows S. Typhimurium to persist at concentrations 
(>1 × 103 CFU/ml) capable of causing human infection, for up to 28 days. 
Additionally, using a Galleria Mellonella model of infection, S. Typhimurium 
exhibits greater pathogenicity following recovery from the UV-exposed 
plastisphere, suggesting that the plastisphere may select for more virulent 
variants. This study demonstrates the protection afforded by the plastisphere 
and provides further evidence of environmental plastic waste acting as a 
reservoir for dangerous clinical pathogens. Quantifying the role of plastic 
pollution in facilitating the survival, persistence, and dissemination of human 
pathogens is critical for a more holistic understanding of the potential public 
health risks associated with plastic waste.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.124464
PMID: 38964649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


16. Microbiol Spectr. 2024 Aug 6;12(8):e0086324. doi: 10.1128/spectrum.00863-24. 
Epub 2024 Jun 25.

Morphological and pathogenic investigation of the emerging fungal threat 
Emergomyces africanus.

Albergoni EC(1)(2), Oliveira HC(1), Honorato L(2), Valdez AF(2), Sena BG(1)(2), 
Castelli RF(1), Rodrigues AJC(1), Marcon BH(1), Robert AW(1), Nimrichter L(2), 
Rodrigues ML(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Carlos Chagas, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz), Curitiba, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Microbiologia Paulo de Góes, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Emergomyces africanus is a highly fatal fungal pathogen affecting individuals 
with advanced HIV disease. Molecular patterns and ultrastructural aspects of E. 
africanus are unknown, and pathogenic models have not been investigated in 
detail. Since the cell wall of fungi is a determinant for interaction with the 
host and antifungal development, we characterized the ultrastructural aspects of 
E. africanus and the general properties of cell wall components under different 
conditions of growth in vitro and in vivo. We also tested the pathogenic 
potential of E. africanus in a Galleria mellonella model of infection. 
Transmission electron microscopy revealed the common intracellular, 
ultrastructural features of fungi in association with a thick cell wall. 
Scanning electron microscopy revealed a smooth cell surface, with no apparent 
decorative structures. Yeast cultures of E. africanus showed the distribution of 
chitin, chitooligomers, and mannoproteins commonly observed in fungi. However, 
in mixed microenvironments containing yeast and filamenting forms of E. 
africanus, the detection of chitooligomers was increased in comparison with 
isolated yeast cells, while the detection of these components in filamenting 
forms was markedly reduced. These observations were suggestive of the ability of 
E. africanus to change its cell wall composition in response to different 
microenvironments. Although E. africanus was unable to kill G. mellonella, this 
infection model allowed us to isolate infected hemocytes for further analysis of 
mannoproteins, chitin, and chitooligomers. Once again, the detection of E. 
africanus chitooligomers was markedly increased. These results reveal previously 
unknown ultrastructural features of E. africanus and suggest a high plasticity 
in the cell wall of this lethal pathogen.
IMPORTANCE: The epidemiology of fungal infections is very dynamic, and novel 
health emergencies are hard to predict. New fungal pathogens have been 
continuously emerging for the last few decades, and Emergomyces africanus is one 
of these threats to human health. This complex scenario points to the need for 
generating knowledge about emerging pathogens so that new therapeutic strategies 
can be designed. In this study, we characterized the general cellular and 
pathogenic properties of the emerging fungal pathogen E. africanus. Our results 
reveal that E. africanus manifests some of the typical properties of fungal 
cells but also exhibits some unique characteristics that might be helpful for 
the future development of therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1128/spectrum.00863-24
PMCID: PMC11302337
PMID: 38916362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


17. G3 (Bethesda). 2024 Jun 5;14(6):jkae070. doi: 10.1093/g3journal/jkae070.

Improved reference quality genome sequence of the plastic-degrading greater wax 
moth, Galleria mellonella.

Young R(1), Ahmed KA(2), Court L(1), Castro-Vargas C(1), Marcora A(3), Boctor 
J(4), Paull C(3), Wijffels G(5), Rane R(6), Edwards O(7), Walsh T(1), Pandey 
G(1).

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Environment, Acton, ACT 2601, Australia.
(2)CSIRO Australian Animal Health Laboratory, Geelong, VIC 3220, Australia.
(3)CSIRO Agriculture and Food, Dutton Park, QLD 4102, Australia.
(4)Bioplastics Innovation Hub, Food Futures Institute, Murdoch University, 
Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia.
(5)CSIRO Agriculture and Food, St Lucia, QLD 4067, Australia.
(6)CSIRO Health and Biosecurity, Parkville, VIC 3052, Australia.
(7)CSIRO Environment, Floreat, WA 6010, Australia.

Galleria mellonella is a pest of honeybees in many countries because its larvae 
feed on beeswax. However, G. mellonella larvae can also eat various plastics, 
including polyethylene, polystyrene, and polypropylene, and therefore, the 
species is garnering increasing interest as a tool for plastic biodegradation 
research. This paper presents an improved genome (99.3% completed 
lepidoptera_odb10 BUSCO; genome mode) for G. mellonella. This 472 Mb genome is 
in 221 contigs with an N50 of 6.4 Mb and contains 13,604 protein-coding genes. 
Genes that code for known and putative polyethylene-degrading enzymes and their 
similarity to proteins found in other Lepidoptera are highlighted. An analysis 
of secretory proteins more likely to be involved in the plastic catabolic 
process has also been carried out.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Genetics Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/g3journal/jkae070
PMCID: PMC11152082
PMID: 38564250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The author(s) declare no 
conflicts of interest.


18. Ann Clin Microbiol Antimicrob. 2024 Mar 29;23(1):27. doi: 
10.1186/s12941-024-00686-3.

Genomic insights into the evolution and mechanisms of carbapenem-resistant 
hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae co-harboring bla(KPC) and bla(NDM): 
implications for public health threat mitigation.

Wang Q(#)(1), Liu Y(#)(1), Chen R(1)(2), Zhang M(2), Si Z(2), Wang Y(1), Jin 
Y(1), Bai Y(1), Song Z(1), Lu X(1), Hao M(3), Hao Y(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to 
Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Shandong Provincial Hospital, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(3)Shandong Medicine and Health Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, 
Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Shandong First Medical University & Shandong Provincial Qianfoshan Hospital, 
Jinan, China. haomingju@163.com.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to 
Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, China. haoyyjia@163.com.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Shandong Provincial Hospital, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China. 
haoyyjia@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Carbapenem-resistant hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae (CR-hvKP) 
co-producing blaKPC and blaNDM poses a serious threat to public health. This 
study aimed to investigate the mechanisms underlying the resistance and 
virulence of CR-hvKP isolates collected from a Chinese hospital, with a focus on 
blaKPC and blaNDM dual-positive hvKP strains.
METHODS: Five CR-hvKP strains were isolated from a teaching hospital in China. 
Antimicrobial susceptibility and plasmid stability testing, plasmid conjugation, 
pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, and whole-genome sequencing (WGS) were 
performed to examine the mechanisms of resistance and virulence. The virulence 
of CR-hvKP was evaluated through serum-killing assay and Galleria mellonella 
lethality experiments. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16 highly homologous 
carbapenem-resistant K. pneumoniae (CRKP) producing KPC-2 isolates from the same 
hospital was conducted to elucidate the potential evolutionary pathway of CRKP 
co-producing NDM and KPC.
RESULTS: WGS revealed that five isolates individually carried three unique 
plasmids: an IncFIB/IncHI1B-type virulence plasmid, IncFII/IncR-type plasmid 
harboring KPC-2 and IncC-type plasmid harboring NDM-1. The conjugation test 
results indicated that the transference of KPC-2 harboring IncFII/IncR-type 
plasmid was unsuccessful on their own, but could be transferred by forming a 
hybrid plasmid with the IncC plasmid harboring NDM. Further genetic analysis 
confirmed that the pJNKPN26-KPC plasmid was entirely integrated into the 
IncC-type plasmid via the copy-in route, which was mediated by TnAs1 and IS26.
CONCLUSION: KPC-NDM-CR-hvKP likely evolved from a KPC-2-CRKP ancestor and later 
acquired a highly transferable blaNDM-1 plasmid. ST11-KL64 CRKP exhibited 
enhanced plasticity. The identification of KPC-2-NDM-1-CR-hvKP highlights the 
urgent need for effective preventive strategies against aggravated accumulation 
of resistance genes.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12941-024-00686-3
PMCID: PMC10981300
PMID: 38553771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


19. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Jan 27;25(3):1576. doi: 10.3390/ijms25031576.

Biodegradation of Polystyrene by Galleria mellonella: Identification of 
Potential Enzymes Involved in the Degradative Pathway.

Venegas S(1), Alarcón C(1), Araya J(2), Gatica M(1), Morin V(1), 
Tarifeño-Saldivia E(1), Uribe E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Biological 
Sciences, University of Concepción, Concepción 4070409, Chile.
(2)Department of Instrumental Analysis, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Concepción, Concepción 4070409, Chile.

Galleria mellonella is a lepidopteran whose larval stage has shown the ability 
to degrade polystyrene (PS), one of the most recalcitrant plastics to 
biodegradation. In the present study, we fed G. mellonella larvae with PS for 54 
days and determined candidate enzymes for its degradation. We first confirmed 
the biodegradation of PS by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy- Attenuated 
total reflectance (FTIR-ATR) and then identified candidate enzymes in the larval 
gut by proteomic analysis using liquid chromatography with tandem mass 
spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Two of these proteins have structural similarities to 
the styrene-degrading enzymes described so far. In addition, potential 
hydrolases, isomerases, dehydrogenases, and oxidases were identified that show 
little similarity to the bacterial enzymes that degrade styrene. However, their 
response to a diet based solely on polystyrene makes them interesting candidates 
as a potential new group of polystyrene-metabolizing enzymes in eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25031576
PMCID: PMC10855133
PMID: 38338857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


20. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Dec 19;25(1):12. doi: 10.3390/ijms25010012.

Polystyrene Microplastics Exacerbate Candida albicans Infection Ability In Vitro 
and In Vivo.

Maione A(1), Norcia M(1), Sinoca M(1), Galdiero M(2), Maselli V(1), Feola A(1), 
Carotenuto R(1), Cuomo P(3), Capparelli R(3), Guida M(1)(4)(5), Galdiero 
E(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Naples Federico II, Via Cinthia, 80126 
Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi 
Vanvitelli", 81100 Naples, Italy.
(3)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Naples Federico II, 80055 
Portici, Italy.
(4)National Biodiversity Future Center (NBFC), 90133 Palermo, Italy.
(5)Center for Studies on Bioinspired Agro-Environmental Technology (BAT Center), 
80055 Portici, Italy.

Plastic pollution is an important environmental problem, and microplastics have 
been shown to have harmful effects on human and animal health, affecting immune 
and metabolic physiological functions. Further, microplastics can interfere with 
commensal microorganisms and exert deleterious effects on exposure to pathogens. 
Here, we compared the effects of 1 µm diameter polystyrene microplastic (PSMPs) 
on Candida albicans infection in both in vitro and in vivo models by using HT29 
cells and Galleria mellonella larvae, respectively. The results demonstrated 
that PSMPs could promote Candida infection in HT29 cells and larvae of G. 
mellonella, which show immune responses similar to vertebrates. In this study, 
we provide new experimental evidence for the risk to human health posed by PSMPs 
in conjunction with Candida infections.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25010012
PMCID: PMC10778850
PMID: 38203182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


21. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2024 Dec;108(1):8. doi: 10.1007/s00253-023-12886-6. 
Epub 2024 Jan 2.

The use of Phasmarhabditis nematodes and metabolites of Xenorhabdus bacteria in 
slug control.

Nermuť J(1), Konopická J(2), Weijler V(2), Půža V(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Entomology, Biology Centre CAS, Branišovská 1160/31, 370 05, 
České Budějovice, Czech Republic. nermut@entu.cas.cz.
(2)Institute of Entomology, Biology Centre CAS, Branišovská 1160/31, 370 05, 
České Budějovice, Czech Republic.

Many species of slugs are considered serious pests in agriculture and 
horticulture around the world. In Europe, slugs of the genera Arion and 
Deroceras are the most harmful pests in agriculture. Therefore, the main goal of 
this study was to evaluate the effect of the whole-cell metabolites of 10 
strains of five Xenorhabdus and three slug-parasitic nematodes (Phasmarhabditis 
hermaphrodita, Phasmarhabditis bohemica, and Phasmarhabditis apuliae) on the 
feeding behaviour and repellent effect on target slugs and evaluate a new 
possible means of biocontrol of these pests. The repellent and anti-feedant 
effects of nematode-killed insects, metabolites, slug-parasitic nematodes and a 
combination of metabolites and nematodes were studied through experimental 
designs: sand-filled plastic boxes divided into two parts in several 
modifications: with dead Galleria mellonella killed by nematodes, lettuce 
treated with bacterial metabolites and lettuce placed on the treated sand. We 
found that slugs avoid eating G. mellonella killed by nematodes, while they eat 
freeze-killed G. mellonella. Similarly, they avoid the consumption of lettuce in 
areas treated with bacterial metabolites (the most effective strains being 
Xenorhabus bovienii NFUST, Xenorhabdus kozodoii SLOV and JEGOR) with zero 
feeding in the treated side. All three Phasmarhabditis species also provided a 
significant anti-feedant/repellent effect. Our study is the first to show the 
repellent and anti-feedant effects of metabolites of Xenorhabdus bacteria 
against Arion vulgaris, and the results suggest that these substances have great 
potential for biocontrol. Our study is also the first to demonstrate the 
repellent effect of P. apuliae and P. bohemica. KEY POINTS: • Slugs avoid eating 
G. mellonella killed by entomopathogenic nematodes. • Bacterial metabolites have 
a strong repellent and antifeedant effect on slugs. • Presence of slug parasitic 
nematodes increases the repellent effect of metabolites.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-023-12886-6
PMID: 38165479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Control Release. 2024 Jan;365:744-758. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2023.12.010. 
Epub 2023 Dec 14.

Amphotericin B-loaded natural latex dressing for treating Candida albicans wound 
infections using Galleria mellonella model.

Herculano RD(1), Dos Reis CE(2), de Souza SMB(2), Pegorin Brasil GS(3), Scontri 
M(3), Kawakita S(4), Carvalho BG(5), Bebber CC(3), Su Y(3), de Sousa Abreu 
AP(3), Mecwan MM(4), Mandal K(4), Fusco Almeida AM(6), Mendes Giannini MJS(6), 
Guerra NB(7), Mussagy CU(8), Bosculo MRM(9), Gemeinder JLP(10), de Almeida 
BFM(9), Floriano JF(11), Farhadi N(4), Monirizad M(4), Khorsandi D(4), Nguyen 
HT(4), Gomez A(12), Tirpáková Z(13), Peirsman A(14), da Silva Sasaki JC(3), He 
S(12), Forster S(12), Burd BS(3), Dokmeci MR(4), Terra-Garcia M(15), Junqueira 
JC(15), de Mendonça RJ(16), Cardoso MR(17), Dos Santos LS(18), Silva GR(19), 
Barros NR(4), Jucaud V(4), Li B(20).

Author information:
(1)São Paulo State University (UNESP), Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 14800-903 Araraquara, SP, Brazil; Terasaki 
Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA; Autonomy Research Center for STEAHM (ARCS), California State 
University, Northridge, CA 91324, USA. Electronic address: 
rondinelli.herculano@unesp.br.
(2)Fundação Educacional do Município de Assis (FEMA), 1200 Getulio Vargas 
Avenue, 19807-130 Assis, SP, Brazil.
(3)São Paulo State University (UNESP), Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 14800-903 Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(4)Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(5)Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA; University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Department of Materials 
and Bioprocesses Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering, 13083-852 
Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(6)São Paulo State University (UNESP), Department of Clinical Analysis, School 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 14800-903 Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(7)São Paulo State University (UNESP), School of Sciences, 17033-360 Bauru, SP, 
Brazil.
(8)Escuela de Agronomía, Facultad de Ciencias Agronómicas y de los Alimentos, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Chile.
(9)University Center of the Integrated Faculties of Ourinhos (UNIFIO), Km 338, 
BR-153, 19909-100 Ourinhos, SP, Brazil.
(10)São Paulo State University (UNESP), Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 14800-903 Araraquara, SP, Brazil; University 
Center of the Integrated Faculties of Ourinhos (UNIFIO), Km 338, BR-153, 
19909-100 Ourinhos, SP, Brazil.
(11)São Paulo State University (UNESP), Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 14800-903 Araraquara, SP, Brazil; São Paulo 
State University (UNESP), School of Sciences, 17033-360 Bauru, SP, Brazil.
(12)Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA; Autonomy Research Center for STEAHM (ARCS), California 
State University, Northridge, CA 91324, USA.
(13)Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA; University of Veterinary Medicine and Pharmacy in Košice, 
Komenského 73, 041 81 Košice, Slovak Republic.
(14)Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA; Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, University 
Hospital Ghent, Ghent, Belgium.
(15)Department of Biosciences and Oral Diagnosis, Institute of Science and 
Technology, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 12244-514 São José dos Campos, 
SP, Brazil.
(16)Department of Biochemistry, Pharmacology and Physiology, Federal University 
of Triangulo Mineiro (UFTM), Uberaba, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(17)São Carlos Institute of Physics, University of São Paulo, PO Box 369, 
13561-970 São Carlos, SP, Brazil.
(18)Faculty of Philosophy, Sciences and Languages of Ribeirão Preto, 
Universidade de São Paulo University (USP), 3900 Bandeirantes Avenue, 14, 
040-901 Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(19)Federal Institute of Education, Science, and Technology of Minas Gerais, s/n 
São Luiz Gonzaga Street, 35577-010, Formiga, MG, Brazil.
(20)Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA; Autonomy Research Center for STEAHM (ARCS), California 
State University, Northridge, CA 91324, USA. Electronic address: 
bingbing.li@csun.edu.

Amphotericin B (AmB) is the gold standard for antifungal drugs. However, AmB 
systemic administration is restricted because of its side effects. Here, we 
report AmB loaded in natural rubber latex (NRL), a sustained delivery system 
with low toxicity, which stimulates angiogenesis, cell adhesion and accelerates 
wound healing. Physicochemical characterizations showed that AmB did not bind 
chemically to the polymeric matrix. Electronic and topographical images showed 
small crystalline aggregates from AmB crystals on the polymer surface. About 
56.6% of AmB was released by the NRL in 120 h. However, 33.6% of this antifungal 
was delivered in the first 24 h due to the presence of AmB on the polymer 
surface. The biomaterial's excellent hemo- and cytocompatibility with 
erythrocytes and human dermal fibroblasts (HDF) confirmed its safety for dermal 
wound application. Antifungal assay against Candida albicans showed that AmB-NRL 
presented a dose-dependent behavior with an inhibition halo of 30.0 ± 1.0 mm. 
Galleria mellonella was employed as an in vivo model for C. albicans infection. 
Survival rates of 60% were observed following the injection of AmB (0.5 mg.mL-1) 
in G. mellonella larvae infected by C. albicans. Likewise, AmB-NRL (0.5 mg.mL-1) 
presented survival rates of 40%, inferring antifungal activity against fungus. 
Thus, NRL adequately acts as an AmB-sustained release matrix, which is an 
exciting approach, since this antifungal is toxic at high concentrations. Our 
findings suggest that AmB-NRL is an efficient, safe, and reasonably priced 
($0.15) dressing for the treatment of cutaneous fungal infections.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2023.12.010
PMID: 38072085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


23. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2023 Sep 27;13:1194133. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2023.1194133. eCollection 2023.

Covert dissemination of pLVPK-like virulence plasmid in ST29-K54 Klebsiella 
pneumoniae: emergence of low virulence phenotype strains.

Qiu J(1), Wei D(2)(3), Ma J(1), Liu R(1), Shi J(1), Ren Q(1), Wei C(1), Huo 
B(2), Zhu L(4), Xiang T(5), Liu Y(2)(3)(6), Cheng N(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.
(2)Departments of Clinical Laboratory, Medical Center of Burn Plastic and Wound 
Repair, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(3)National Regional Center for Respiratory Medicine, China-Japan Friendship 
Hospital Jiangxi Hospital, Nanchang, China.
(4)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(5)Medical Center for Major Public Health Events in Jiangxi Province, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(6)Jiangxi Medicine Academy of Nutrition and Health Management, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.

This study aimed to explore the epidemic, clinical characteristics, and 
molecular and virulence attributes of Klebsiella pneumoniae serotype K54 
(K54-Kp). A retrospective study was conducted on 328 strains of Klebsiella 
pneumoniae screened in a Chinese hospital from January 2016 to December 2019. 
The virulence genes and antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) were detected by PCR, 
and a drug sensitivity test was adopted to detect drug resistance. Multilocus 
sequence typing (MLST) and PFGE were performed to determine the clonal 
correlation between isolates. Biofilm formation assay, serum complement-mediated 
killing, and Galleria mellonella infection were used to characterize the 
virulence potential. Our results showed that thirty strains of K54-Kp were 
screened from 328 strains of bacteria, with an annual detection rate of 2.29%. 
K54-Kp had a high resistance rate to antibiotics commonly used in the clinic, 
and patients with hepatobiliary diseases were prone to K54-Kp infection. MLST 
typing showed 10 sequence typing, mainly ST29 (11/30), which concentrated in the 
B2 cluster. K54-Kp primarily carried virulence genes of aerobactin, silS, allS, 
wcaG, wabG, and mrkD, among which the terW gene was closely related to ST29 
(p<0.05). The strains infected by the bloodstream had strong biofilm formation 
ability (p<0.05). Most strains were sensitive to serum. Still, the virulence of 
pLVPK-like virulence plasmid in ST29-K54 Klebsiella pneumoniae was lower than 
that of ST11 type and NTUH-K2044 in the Galleria mellonella model. Therefore, 
these findings supply a foundation to roundly comprehend K54-Kp, and clinicians 
should strengthen supervision and attention.

Copyright © 2023 Qiu, Wei, Ma, Liu, Shi, Ren, Wei, Huo, Zhu, Xiang, Liu and 
Cheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2023.1194133
PMCID: PMC10565659
PMID: 37829609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


24. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Jan 5;461:132439. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.132439. Epub 
2023 Aug 30.

Enduring pathogenicity of African strains of Salmonella on plastics and glass in 
simulated peri-urban environmental waste piles.

Ormsby MJ(1), White HL(2), Metcalf R(2), Oliver DM(2), Feasey NA(3), Quilliam 
RS(2).

Author information:
(1)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling FK9 4LA, UK. Electronic address: 
Michael.ormsby1@stir.ac.uk.
(2)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling FK9 4LA, UK.
(3)Malawi-Liverpool Wellcome Research Programme, Blantyre, Malawi; Kamuzu 
University of Health Sciences, Blantyre, Malawi; Department of Clinical 
Sciences, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, UK.

In low- and middle-income countries, plastic has become a major constituent of 
landfills and urban dump sites. Environmental plastic pollution can also provide 
a novel surface for the formation of microbial biofilm, which often includes 
pathogenic bacteria and viruses. Here, under conditions simulating a peri-urban 
waste pile typical of an African informal settlement, we aimed to determine if 
pathogenic Salmonella spp. can retain their virulence following a prolonged 
period of desiccation on the surfaces of environmental plastic and glass. We 
show that clinically (and environmentally) relevant strains of Salmonella 
including S. Enteritidis, S. Typhimurium and S. Typhi can persist on plastic and 
glass for at least 28-days and that temperature (which increases with the depth 
of an urban waste pile) is a key determinant of this survival. All three strains 
of Salmonella retained their pathogenicity (determined by using a Galleria 
mellonella model of infection) following their recovery from the plastisphere 
indicating that plastics in the environment can act as reservoirs for human 
pathogens and could facilitate their persistence for extended periods of time. 
Pathogens colonising environmental plastic waste therefore pose a heightened 
public health risk, particularly in areas where people are frequently exposed to 
plastic pollution.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.132439
PMID: 37734312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


25. Sci Adv. 2023 Sep 22;9(38):eadi6813. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adi6813. Epub 2023 Sep 
20.

Plastic degradation by insect hexamerins: Near-atomic resolution structures of 
the polyethylene-degrading proteins from the wax worm saliva.

Spínola-Amilibia M(1), Illanes-Vicioso R(2), Ruiz-López E(2), Colomer-Vidal 
P(3), Rodriguez-Ventura F(3), Peces Pérez R(3), Arias CF(3)(4), Torroba T(5), 
Solà M(2), Arias-Palomo E(1), Bertocchini F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Structural and Chemical Biology, Centro de Investigaciones 
Biológicas Margarita Salas, CSIC, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Structural Biology, Molecular Biology Institute of Barcelona 
(IBMB), CSIC, Barcelona Science Park, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, Centro de Investigaciones 
Biológicas Margarita Salas, CSIC, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(4)Grupo Interdisciplinar de Sistemas Complejos, GISC, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and PCT, University of Burgos, 
Burgos, Spain.

Plastic waste management is a pressing ecological, social, and economic 
challenge. The saliva of the lepidopteran Galleria mellonella larvae is capable 
of oxidizing and depolymerizing polyethylene in hours at room temperature. Here, 
we analyze by cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) G. mellonella's saliva directly 
from the native source. The three-dimensional reconstructions reveal that the 
buccal secretion is mainly composed of four hexamerins belonging to the 
hemocyanin/phenoloxidase family, renamed Demetra, Cibeles, Ceres, and a 
previously unidentified factor termed Cora. Functional assays show that this 
factor, as its counterparts Demetra and Ceres, is also able to oxidize and 
degrade polyethylene. The cryo-EM data and the x-ray analysis from purified 
fractions show that they self-assemble primarily into three macromolecular 
complexes with striking structural differences that likely modulate their 
activity. Overall, these results establish the ground to further explore the 
hexamerins' functionalities, their role in vivo, and their eventual 
biotechnological application.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adi6813
PMCID: PMC10511194
PMID: 37729416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Insect Sci. 2024 Jun;31(3):773-791. doi: 10.1111/1744-7917.13264. Epub 2023 Sep 
9.

Genomics, transcriptomics, and peptidomics of the greater wax moth Galleria 
mellonella neuropeptides and their expression in response to lead stress.

Luo LL(1)(2), Lin Y(1), Linghu JH(1), Gong W(1), Luo YH(1), Liu M(2), Jin DC(1), 
Smagghe G(1), Liu TX(1)(3), Gui SH(1)(3), Yi TC(1).

Author information:
(1)Guizhou Provincial Key Laboratory for Agricultural Pest Management of the 
Mountainous Region, Institute of Entomology, Guizhou University, Guiyang, 
Guizhou, China.
(2)Guizhou Institute of Biology, Guizhou Academy of Sciences, Guiyang, China.
(3)Institute of Plant Health and Medicine, Guizhou University, Guiyang, China.

Neuropeptides are crucial in regulation of a rich variety of developmental, 
physiological, and behavioral functions throughout the life cycle of insects. 
Using an integrated approach of multiomics, we identified neuropeptide 
precursors in the greater wax moth Galleria mellonella, which is a harmful pest 
of honeybee hives with a worldwide distribution. Here, a total of 63 and 67 
neuropeptide precursors were predicted and annotated in the G. mellonella genome 
and transcriptome, in which 40 neuropeptide precursors were confirmed in the G. 
mellonella peptidome. Interestingly, we identified 12 neuropeptide precursor 
genes present in G. mellonella but absent in honeybees, which may be potential 
novel pesticide target sites. Honeybee hives were contaminated with heavy metals 
such as lead, enabling its bioaccumulation in G. mellonella bodies through the 
food chain, we performed transcriptome sequencing to analyze the effects of Pb 
stress on the mRNA expression level of G. mellonella neuropeptide precursors. 
After treatment by Pb, the expression of neuropeptide F1 was found to be 
significantly downregulated, implying that this neuropeptide might be associated 
with responding to the heavy metal stress in G. mellonella. This study 
comprehensively identified neuropeptide precursors in G. mellonella, and 
discussed the effects of heavy metals on insect neuropeptides, with the example 
of G. mellonella. The results are valuable for future elucidation of how 
neuropeptides regulate physiological functions in G. mellonella and contribute 
to our understanding of the insect's environmental plasticity and identify 
potential new biomarkers to assess heavy metal toxicity in insects.

© 2023 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/1744-7917.13264
PMID: 37689966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. J Polym Environ. 2023 May 10:1-14. doi: 10.1007/s10924-023-02878-y. Online ahead 
of print.

Physicochemical and Structural Evidence that Bacillus cereus Isolated from the 
Gut of Waxworms (Galleria mellonella Larvae) Biodegrades Polypropylene 
Efficiently In Vitro.

Nyamjav I(1), Jang Y(2), Park N(2), Lee YE(1), Lee S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain Sciences, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of Science and 
Technology (DGIST), Daegu, 42988 Republic of Korea.
(2)School of Undergraduate Studies, College of Transdisciplinary Studies, Daegu 
Gyeongbuk Institute of Science and Technology (DGIST), Daegu, 42988 Republic of 
Korea.

Biodegradation of plastic waste using microorganisms has been proposed as one of 
the solutions to the increasing worldwide plastic waste. Polypropylene (PP) is 
the second most used plastic used in various industries, and it has been widely 
used in the production of personal protective equipment such as masks due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, biodegradation of PP becomes very important. Here, 
we present results on the physicochemical and structural studies of PP 
biodegradation by Bacillus cereus isolated from the gut of the waxworms, 
Galleria mellonella larvae. We also studied the biodegradability of PP by the 
gut microbiota compared with Bacillus cereus. We analyzed the microbial 
degradation of the PP surface using scanning electron microscopy and 
energy - dispersive X-ray spectroscopy and confirmed that the physical and 
chemical changes were caused by Bacillus cereus and the gut microbiota. The 
chemical structural changes were further investigated using X-ray photoelectron 
microscopy and Fourier - transform - infrared spectroscopy, and it was confirmed 
that the oxidation of the PP surface proceeded with the formation of carbonyl 
groups (C=O), ester groups (C-O), and hydroxyl groups (-OH) by Bacillus cereus. 
Additionally, the gut microbiota composed of diverse microbial species showed 
equal oxidation of PP compared to Bacillus cereus. More importantly, high 
temperature gel permeation chromatography (HT-GPC) analysis showed that Bacillus 
cereus exhibited quantitatively a higher biodegradability of PP compared to the 
gut microbiota. Our results suggest that Bacillus cereus possesses a complete 
set of enzymes required to initiate the oxidation of the carbon chain of PP and 
will be used to discover new enzymes and genes that are involved in degrading 
PP.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1007/s10924-023-02878-y.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, 
LLC, part of Springer Nature 2023, Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a 
society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a 
publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author 
self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely 
governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s10924-023-02878-y
PMCID: PMC10171730
PMID: 37361349

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestWe have no conflict of 
interest to disclose.


28. Front Microbiol. 2023 May 24;14:1182870. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1182870. 
eCollection 2023.

Isolation of Hv-CRKP with co-production of three carbapenemases (bla(KPC), 
bla(OXA-181) or (OXA-232), and bla(NDM-1)) and a virulence plasmid: a study from 
a Chinese tertiary hospital.

Li P(1)(2)(3), Luo WY(1)(2), Xiang TX(4), Peng TX(1)(2), Luo S(1)(2), He 
ZY(1)(2), Liao W(1), Wei DD(5)(6), Liu P(5), Wan LG(5), Zhang W(1)(2), Liu 
Y(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(2)Jiangxi Institute of Respiratory Disease, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(3)Yichun People's Hospital, Yichun, China.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Medical Center of Burn Plastic and Wound 
Repair, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(6)National Regional Center for Respiratory Medicine, China-Japan Friendship 
Jiang Xi Hospital, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.

BACKGROUND: The worldwide dissemination of K. pneumoniae isolates is a 
significant public health concern, as these organisms possess a unique capacity 
to acquire genetic elements encoding both resistance and hypervirulence. This 
study aims to investigate the epidemiological, resistance, and virulence 
characteristics of K. pneumoniae isolates that carry both virulence plasmids and 
blaOXA-48-like genes in a tertiary hospital in China.
METHODS: A total of 217 clinical isolates of carbapenem-resistant K. pneumoniae 
(CRKP) were collected between April 2020 and March 2022. The antimicrobial 
susceptibility test was conducted to evaluate the drug resistance profile. All 
isolates were screened for the presence of genes encoding carbapenemases 
(blaKPC, blaNDM, blaIMP, blaVIM, and blaOXA-48-like), ESBLs genes (blaCTX-M, 
blaSHV, blaTEM), and virulence plasmid pLVPK-borne genes (rmpA, rmpA2, iucA, 
iroB, and peg344) using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. Clonal 
lineages were assigned using multilocus sequence typing (MLST) and pulsed-field 
gel electrophoresis (PFGE). The plasmid incompatibility groups were identified 
using PCR-based replicon typing (PBRT). The transferability of 
carbapenemase-encoding plasmids and pLVPK-like virulence plasmids was assessed 
via conjugation. The plasmid location of rmpA2 was determined using S1-Pulsed 
Field Gel Electrophoresis (S1-PFGE) and southern blotting hybridization. The 
virulence potential of the isolates was assessed using the string test, capsular 
serotyping, serum killing assay and a Galleria mellonella larval infection 
model.
RESULTS: Of the 217 CRKP clinical isolates collected, 23% were identified as 
carrying blaOXA-48-like genes. All blaOXA-48-like isolates exhibited resistance 
to commonly used clinical antimicrobial agents, except for 
ceftazidime/avibactam, colistin, tigecycline, trimethoprim-sulfamethOXAzole, 
polymyxin B, and nitrofurantoin. The main common OXA-48-like carbapenemase 
enzymes were found to be blaOXA-181 and blaOXA-232. MLST and PFGE fingerprinting 
analysis revealed clonal transmission and plasmid transmission. OXA-48-like 
producing CRKP isolates mainly clustered in K64 ST11 and K47 ST15. Results of 
the string Test, serum killing assay (in vitro) and Galleria mellonella 
infection model (in vivo) indicated hypervirulence. PBRT showed that the 
blaOXA-181 and blaOXA-232 producing hypervirulent carbapenem-resistant 
Klebsiella pneumoniae (Hv-CRKP) were mainly carried on ColE-type, IncF, and 
IncX3. Eight clinical isolates of hv-CRKP were identified as carrying three 
carbapenem-resistant genes (blaKPC, blaOXA-181 or OXA-232, and blaNDM-1). 
Moreover, Southern blotting hybridization revealed that all eight isolates had a 
pLVPK-like virulent plasmid (138.9-216.9 kb) with an uneven number and size of 
plasmid.
CONCLUSION: In our investigation, we have observed the emergence of hv-CRKP 
carrying blaOXA-48-like genes, which identified two genetic relationships: 
clonal transmission and plasmid transmission. PBRT analysis showed that these 
genes were mainly carried on ColE-type, IncF, and IncX3 plasmids. These isolates 
have been shown to be hypervirulent in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, eight 
clinical isolates of hv-CRKP were identified as carrying three 
carbapenem-resistant genes (blaKPC, blaOXA-181 or OXA-232, and blaNDM-1) and 
carrying a pLVPK-like virulent plasmid. Hence, our findings highlight the need 
for further investigation and active surveillance of hypervirulent OXA-48-like 
producing Hv-CRKP isolates to control their transmission.

Copyright © 2023 Li, Luo, Xiang, Peng, Luo, He, Liao, Wei, Liu, Wan, Zhang and 
Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1182870
PMCID: PMC10244740
PMID: 37293218

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


29. Drug Chem Toxicol. 2024 Sep;47(5):483-495. doi: 10.1080/01480545.2023.2217484. 
Epub 2023 Jun 1.

Interactions of alumina and polystyrene nanoparticles with the innate immune 
system of Galleria mellonella.

Demirtürk Z(1), Uçkan F(1), Mert S(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, Türkiye.
(2)Department of Polymer Science and Technology, Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, 
Türkiye.
(3)Center for Stem Cell and Gene Therapies Research and Practice, Kocaeli 
University, Kocaeli, Türkiye.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Processing Technology, Kocaeli 
University, Türkiye.

Nowadays, particularly metallic, and polymeric nanoparticles (NPs) are widely 
produced and used in many fields. Due to the increase in both their usage and 
diversity, their release and accumulation in the environment are also 
accelerating. Therefore, their interactions with cells, especially immune cells, 
and their health risks are not fully understood. The impacts of metallic alumina 
(Al) NPs and polystyrene (PS) NPs obtained after the polymerization of 
carcinogenic styrene on living organisms have not yet been elucidated. Galleria 
mellonella larvae can biodegrade plastics. While biodegradation and solving the 
waste problem have attracted much attention, the interactions of this 
distinctive property of G. mellonella larvae in the immune system and ecosystem 
are not yet completely understood. Al and PS NPs were applied to G. mellonella 
separately. Al NPs were purchased and PS NPs were prepared from PS by 
single-emulsion technique and characterized. Then LC50 values of these NPs on G. 
mellonella were determined. The interactions of these NPs with encapsulation, 
melanization, and phenoloxidase activity, which express innate immune responses 
in G. mellonella larvae, were revealed. NP exposure resulted in suppression of 
the immune response, probably because it affects the functions of hemocytes such 
as enzymatic activation, hemocyte division, and populations. In this context, 
our data suggest that Al and PS NPs induce toxic impacts and negatively alter 
the physiological status of G. mellonella. It is also shown that G. mellonella 
has the potential to be an impactful alternative model for biosafety and 
nanotoxicology studies.

DOI: 10.1080/01480545.2023.2217484
PMID: 37259574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Environ Pollut. 2023 Jun 1;326:121466. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2023.121466. Epub 
2023 Mar 21.

Clinically important E. coli strains can persist, and retain their 
pathogenicity, on environmental plastic and fabric waste.

Ormsby MJ(1), White HL(2), Metcalf R(2), Oliver DM(2), Quilliam RS(2).

Author information:
(1)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA, UK. Electronic address: 
Michael.ormsby1@stir.ac.uk.
(2)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA, UK.

Plastic waste is ubiquitous in the environment and there are increasing reports 
of such waste being colonised by human pathogens. However, the ability of 
pathogens to persist on plastics for long periods, and the risk that they pose 
to human health, is unknown. Here, under simulated environmental conditions, we 
aimed to determine if pathogenic bacteria can retain their virulence following a 
prolonged period on plastic. Using antibiotic selection and luciferase 
expression for quantification, we show that clinically important strains of E. 
coli can survive on plastic for at least 28-days. Importantly, these pathogens 
also retained their virulence (determined by using a Galleria mellonella model 
as a surrogate for human infection) and in some cases, had enhanced virulence 
following their recovery from the plastisphere. This indicates that plastics in 
the environment can act as reservoirs for human pathogens and could facilitate 
their persistence for extended periods of time. Most importantly human pathogens 
in the plastisphere are capable of retaining their pathogenicity. Pathogens 
colonising environmental plastic waste therefore pose a heightened public health 
risk, particularly in areas where people are exposed to pollution.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2023.121466
PMID: 36958655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


31. Sci Total Environ. 2023 Jun 10;876:162742. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.162742. 
Epub 2023 Mar 10.

Low dose γ-radiation induced effects on wax moth (Galleria mellonella) larvae.

Copplestone D(1), Coates CJ(2), Lim J(3).

Author information:
(1)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland, UK.
(2)Department of Biosciences, Faculty of Science and Engineering, Swansea 
University, Swansea SA2 8PP, Wales, UK; Zoology, Ryan Institute, School of 
Natural Sciences, University of Galway, Galway H91 TK33, Ireland.
(3)Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences, 
University of Stirling, Stirling FK9 4LA, Scotland, UK. Electronic address: 
jenson.lim@stir.ac.uk.

Larvae of the greater wax moth Galleria mellonella are common pests of beehives 
and commercial apiaries, and in more applied settings, these insects act as 
alternative in vivo bioassays to rodents for studying microbial virulence, 
antibiotic development, and toxicology. In the current study, our aim was to 
assess the putative adverse effects of background gamma radiation levels on G. 
mellonella. To achieve this, we exposed larvae to low (0.014 mGy/h), medium 
(0.056 mGy/h), and high (1.33 mGy/h) doses of caesium-137 and measured larval 
pupation events, weight, faecal discharge, susceptibility to bacterial and 
fungal challenges, immune cell counts, activity, and viability (i.e., haemocyte 
encapsulation) and melanisation levels. The effects of low and medium levels of 
radiation were distinguishable from the highest dose rates used - the latter 
insects weighed the least and pupated earlier. In general, radiation exposure 
modulated cellular and humoral immunity over time, with larvae showing 
heightened encapsulation/melanisation levels at the higher dose rates but were 
more susceptible to bacterial (Photorhabdus luminescens) infection. There were 
few signs of radiation impacts after 7 days exposure, whereas marked changes 
were recorded between 14 and 28 days. Our data suggest that G. mellonella 
demonstrates plasticity at the whole organism and cellular levels when 
irradiated and offers insight into how such animals may cope in radiologically 
contaminated environments (e.g. Chornobyl Exclusion Zone).

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.162742
PMID: 36906041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Jenson Lim reports financial 
support was provided by Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland. David 
Copplestone reports financial support was provided by Natural Environment 
Research Council, Environment Agency and Radioactive Waste Management Ltd.


32. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Mar 5;15(5):1307. doi: 10.3390/polym15051307.

Recent Advances in Degradation of Polymer Plastics by Insects Inhabiting 
Microorganisms.

An R(1), Liu C(2), Wang J(1), Jia P(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Geographic and Biologic Information, Nanjing University of Posts 
and Telecommunications, Nanjing 210023, China.
(2)Institute of Chemical Industry of Forest Products, Chinese Academy of 
Forestry, 16 Suojin North Road, Nanjing 210042, China.

Plastic pollution endangers all natural ecosystems and living creatures on 
earth. Excessive reliance on plastic products and excessive production of 
plastic packaging are extremely dangerous for humans because plastic waste has 
polluted almost the entire world, whether it is in the sea or on the land. This 
review introduces the examination of pollution brought by non-degradable 
plastics, the classification and application of degradable materials, and the 
current situation and strategy to address plastic pollution and plastic 
degradation by insects, which mainly include Galleria mellonella, Zophobas 
atratus, Tenebrio molitor, and other insects. The efficiency of plastic 
degradation by insects, biodegradation mechanism of plastic waste, and the 
structure and composition of degradable products are reviewed. The development 
direction of degradable plastics in the future and plastic degradation by 
insects are prospected. This review provides effective ways to solve plastic 
pollution.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15051307
PMCID: PMC10007075
PMID: 36904548

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


33. Microbiol Spectr. 2023 Jan 31;11(2):e0300222. doi: 10.1128/spectrum.03002-22. 
Online ahead of print.

Phenotypic and Genomic Characterization of Nine String-Positive 
Carbapenem-Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii Isolates from Israel.

Rakovitsky N(1), Lurie-Weinberger MN(1), Hameir A(1), Wulffhart L(1), Keren Paz 
A(1), Schwartz D(1), Carmeli Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Antibiotic Resistance and Infection Control, Israel 
Ministry of Health, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

A positive "string test" indicates the ability of bacterial colonies grown on 
agar plates to form viscous strings of >5 mm when stretched. This phenotype is 
strongly associated with hypervirulence in Klebsiella pneumoniae but has never 
been described in carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAB), an 
emerging human pathogen of high clinical significance. In this work, we screened 
1,000 CRAB isolates, among which we identified and characterized 9 
string-positive CRAB (stCRAB) isolates. Phenotypic and genotypic analyses 
revealed that the isolates were not phylogenetically related and possessed 
different antibiotic resistance and virulence profiles. Transmission electron 
microscopy (TEM) showed the presence of capsule in string-positive isolates. 
String-positive isolates were more motile but did not form more biofilm than 
non-string-positive isolates. They were less virulent in a murine thigh fitness 
model and a Galleria mellonella survival assay. In conclusion, here, we describe 
string-positive A. baumannii isolates and their phenotypic and molecular 
characteristics. We found that unlike K. pneumoniae, stCRAB isolates were not 
associated with increased virulence. IMPORTANCE Acinetobacter baumannii has been 
considered a major health care threat in recent years. Despite many efforts, the 
pathogenesis and molecular mechanism of A. baumannii virulence remain poorly 
understood. Moreover, the plasticity of its genome frequently gives rise to new 
and more virulent isolates. Our current study is of significant importance as it 
concerns a previously undescribed A. baumannii phenotype. The string-positive 
phenotype is strongly associated with increased fitness and virulence in other 
Gram-negative bacteria such as K. pneumoniae. Although no clear correlation with 
virulence or fitness was found in our 9 stCRAB isolates, this could have been 
due to the limited statistical power of our research. We suggest that this 
phenotype should be taken into consideration as due to its genome plasticity, 
the next change can give rise to string-positive and hypervirulent strains, as 
is known for K. pneumoniae. Additional future research is needed regarding its 
possible consequences.

DOI: 10.1128/spectrum.03002-22
PMCID: PMC10100839
PMID: 36719216

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


34. Infect Drug Resist. 2022 Dec 22;15:7577-7599. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S384980. 
eCollection 2022.

CRISPRi-Mediated Gene Suppression Reveals Putative Reverse Transcriptase Gene 
PA0715 to Be a Global Regulator of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

Zhou D(#)(1)(2), Huang G(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Xu G(1)(2), Xiang L(5), Huang S(1)(2), 
Chen X(1)(2), Zhang Y(4), Wang D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Burns and Plastic Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University, Zunyi, People's Republic of China.
(2)The Collaborative Innovation Center of Tissue Damage Repair and Regeneration 
Medicine of Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Burn and Plastic Surgery, Department of Wound Repair, Shenzhen 
Institute of Translational Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen 
University, Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, Shenzhen, People's Republic of 
China.
(4)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, People's 
Republic of China.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Shenzhen Institute of Translational 
Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen Second 
People's Hospital, Shenzhen, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Infect Drug Resist. 2024 Jan 12;17:141-142. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S459122.

PURPOSE: Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common pathogen of infection in burn and 
trauma patients, and multi-drug resistant P. aeruginosa has become an 
increasingly important pathogen. Essential genes are key to the development of 
novel antibiotics. The PA0715 gene is a novel unidentified essential gene that 
has attracted our interest as a potential antibiotic target. Our study aims to 
determine the exact role of PA0715 in cell physiology and bacterial 
pathogenicity, providing important clues for antibiotic development.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The shuttle vector pHERD20T containing an arabinose 
inducible promoter was used to construct the CRISPRi system. Alterations in 
cellular physiology and bacterial pathogenicity of P. aeruginosa PAO1 after 
PA0715 inhibition were characterized. High-throughput RNA-seq was performed to 
gain more insight into the mechanisms by which PA0715 regulates the vital 
activity of P. aeruginosa.
RESULTS: We found that down-regulation of PA0715 significantly reduced PAO1 
growth rate, motility and chemotaxis, antibiotic resistance, pyocyanin and 
biofilm production. In addition, PA0715 inhibition reduced the pathogenicity of 
PAO1 to the greater galleria mellonella larvae. Transcriptional profiling 
identified 1757 genes including those related to amino acid, carbohydrate, 
ketone body and organic salt metabolism, whose expression was directly or 
indirectly controlled by PA0715. Unexpectedly, genes involved in oxidative 
phosphorylation also varied with PA0715 levels, and these findings support a 
hitherto unrecognized critical role for PA0715 in oxidative respiration in P. 
aeruginosa.
CONCLUSION: We identified PA0715 as a global regulator of the metabolic network 
that is indispensable for the survival and reproduction of P. aeruginosa. Our 
results provide a basis for future studies of potential antibiotic targets for 
P. aeruginosa and offer new ideas for P. aeruginosa infection control.

© 2022 Zhou et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S384980
PMCID: PMC9792118
PMID: 36579125

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


35. Environ Res. 2023 Mar 1;220:115137. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2022.115137. Epub 2022 
Dec 20.

Exposure to polylactic acid induces oxidative stress and reduces the ceramide 
levels in larvae of greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella).

Shah R(1), Nguyen TV(1), Marcora A(2), Ruffell A(3), Hulthen A(2), Pham K(4), 
Wijffels G(3), Paull C(2), Beale DJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Land and Water, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, 
Ecosciences Precinct, Dutton Park QLD 4102, Australia.
(2)Agriculture and Food, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation, Ecosciences Precinct, Dutton Park QLD 4102, Australia.
(3)Agriculture and Food, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation, Queensland Bioscience Precinct, St Lucia, QLD 4067, Australia.
(4)CSIRO Manufacturing, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation, Clayton VIC 4067, Australia.
(5)Land and Water, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, 
Ecosciences Precinct, Dutton Park QLD 4102, Australia. Electronic address: 
david.beale@csiro.au.

Plastic biodegradation by insects has made significant progress, opening up new 
avenues for the treatment of plastic waste. Wax moth larvae, for example, have 
attracted the attention of the scientific community because they are known to 
chew, ingest, and biodegrade natural polymer bee waxes. Despite this, we know 
very little about how these insects perform on manufactured plastics or how 
manufactured plastics affect insect metabolism. As a result, we studied the 
metabolism of greater wax moths (Galleria mellonella) fed on 
molasses-supplemented polylactic acid plastic (PLA) blocks. An analysis of the 
central carbon metabolism (CCM) metabolites was performed using liquid 
chromatography triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (LC-QQQ-MS), while an 
analysis of untargeted metabolites and lipids was conducted using liquid 
chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC-QToF-MS). In 
total, 169 targeted CCM metabolites, 222 untargeted polar metabolites, and 196 
untargeted nonpolar lipids were identified within the insect samples. In 
contrast, compared to control larvae, PLA-fed larvae displayed significantly 
different levels of 97 CCM metabolites, 75 polar metabolites, and 57 lipids. 
Purine and pyrimidine metabolisms were affected by PLA feeding, as well as amino 
acid metabolism, carbohydrates, cofactors, vitamins, and related metabolisms. 
Additionally, PLA exposure disrupted insect energy metabolism and oxidative 
stress, among other metabolic disturbances. The larvae fed PLA have lower levels 
of several lipids, suggesting a reduction in lipid reserves, and ceramide levels 
are likely to have changed due to apoptosis and inflammation. The study 
indicates that G. mellonella larvae could ingest PLA but this process causes 
some metabolic stress for the host. Future studies of the molecular pathways of 
this biodegradation process might help to provide strategies for stress 
reduction that would speed up insect digestion of plastic.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2022.115137
PMID: 36563977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


36. Front Microbiol. 2022 Dec 1;13:945972. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2022.945972. 
eCollection 2022.

Horizontal gene transfer via OMVs co-carrying virulence and 
antimicrobial-resistant genes is a novel way for the dissemination of 
carbapenem-resistant hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Li P(1)(2)(3), Luo W(1)(2), Xiang TX(4), Jiang Y(5), Liu P(5), Wei DD(5), Fan 
L(5), Huang S(5), Liao W(1)(2), Liu Y(5)(6), Zhang W(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(2)Jiangxi Institute of Respiratory Disease, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(3)Yichun People's Hospital, Yichun, China.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Medical Center of Burn Plastic and Wound 
Repair, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(6)National Regional Center for Respiratory Medicine, China-Japan Friendship 
Jiangxi Hospital, Nanchang, China.

INTRODUCTION: The rapidly increased isolation rate of CR-HvKP worldwide has 
brought great difficulties in controlling clinical infection. Moreover, it has 
been demonstrated that the transmission of drug-resistant genes among bacteria 
can be mediated by outer membrane vesicles (OMVs), which is a new way of 
horizontal gene transfer (HGT). The transmission of virulence genes among 
bacteria has also been well studied; however, it remains unclear whether 
virulence and drug-resistant genes can be co-transmitted simultaneously. 
Co-transmission of virulence and drug-resistant genes is essential for the 
formation and prevalence of CR-HvKP.
METHODS: First, we isolated OMVs from CR-HvKP by cushioned-density gradient 
ultracentrifugation (C-DGUC). TEM and DLS were used to examine the morphology 
and size of bacterial OMVs. OMV-mediated gene transfer in liquid cultures and 
the acquisition of the carbapenem gene and virulence gene was confirmed using 
colony-PCR. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing, mCIM and eCIM were conducted 
for the resistance of transformant. Serum killing assay, assessment of the 
anti-biofilm effect and galleria mellonella infection model, mucoviscosity 
assay, extraction and quantification of capsules were verified the virulence of 
transformant. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), S1 nuclease-pulsed-field 
gel electrophoresis (S1-PFGE), Southern blotting hybridization confirmed the 
plasmid of transformant.
RESULTS: Firstly, OMVs were isolated from CR-HvKP NUHL30457 (K2, ST86). TEM and 
DLS analyses revealed the spherical morphology of the vesicles. Secondly, our 
study demonstrated that CR-HvKP delivered genetic material, incorporated DNA 
within the OMVs, and protected it from degradation by extracellular 
exonucleases. Thirdly, the vesicular lumen DNA was delivered to the recipient 
cells after determining the presence of virulence and carbapenem-resistant genes 
in the CR-HvKP OMVs. Importantly, S1-PFGE and Southern hybridization analysis of 
the 700603 transformant strain showed that the transformant contained both 
drug-resistant and virulence plasmids.
DISCUSSION: In the present study, we aimed to clarify the role of CRHvKP-OMVs in 
transmitting CR-HvKP among K. pneumoniae. Collectively, our findings provided 
valuable insights into the evolution of CR-HvKP.

Copyright © 2022 Li, Luo, Xiang, Jiang, Liu, Wei, Fan, Huang, Liao, Liu and 
Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2022.945972
PMCID: PMC9751880
PMID: 36532464

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


37. Int Microbiol. 2023 May;26(2):397-409. doi: 10.1007/s10123-022-00303-3. Epub 
2022 Dec 9.

Co-diet supplementation of low density polyethylene and honeybee wax did not 
influence the core gut bacteria and associated enzymes of Galleria mellonella 
larvae (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).

Noël G(1), Serteyn L(2), Sare AR(3), Massart S(3), Delvigne F(4), Francis F(2).

Author information:
(1)Functional and Evolutionary Entomology, TERRA Teaching and Research Centre, 
Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liège, Gembloux, Belgium. 
gregoire.noel@uliege.be.
(2)Functional and Evolutionary Entomology, TERRA Teaching and Research Centre, 
Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liège, Gembloux, Belgium.
(3)Integrated and Urban Plant Pathology Laboratory, TERRA Teaching and Research 
Centre, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liège, Gembloux, Belgium.
(4)Laboratory of Microbial Processes and Interactions, CARE FoodisLife, TERRA 
Teaching and Research Centre, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liege, 
Gembloux, Belgium.

The current plastic pollution throughout the world is a rising concern that 
demands the optimization of biodegradation processes. One avenue for this is to 
identify plastic-degrading bacteria and associated enzymes from the gut bacteria 
of insect models such as Tenebrio molitor, Plodia interpunctella or Galleria 
mellonella that have the ability to ingest and rapidly degrade polyethylene. 
Therefore, this study takes part in understanding the role of the gut bacteria 
by investigating G. mellonella as a biological model feeding with a diet based 
on honeybee wax mixed or not with low-density polyethylene. Gut microbiome was 
analyzed by high throughput 16S rRNA sequencing, and Enterococcaceae and 
Oxalobacteraceae were found to be the major bacterial families. Compared to the 
control, the supplementation of low-density polyethylene did not cause 
significant modification of the bacterial microbiota at community and taxa 
levels, suggesting bacterial microbiome resilience. The bacterial proteome 
analysis of gut contents was encouraging for the identification of plastic 
degrading enzymes such as the phenylacetaldehyde dehydrogenase which participate 
in styrene degradation. This study allowed a better characterization of the gut 
bacteria of G. mellonella and provided a basis for the further study of 
biodegradation of polyethylene based on the bacterial microbiota from insect 
guts.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10123-022-00303-3
PMID: 36484909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2023 Jan 24;99(2):fiac148. doi: 10.1093/femsec/fiac148.

High density polyethylene (HDPE) biodegradation by the fungus Cladosporium 
halotolerans.

Di Napoli M(1), Silvestri B(2), Castagliuolo G(1), Carpentieri A(3), Luciani 
G(2), Di Maro A(4), Sorbo S(5), Pezzella A(6), Zanfardino A(1), Varcamonti M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Naples Federico II, Via Cintia, 80126 
Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Chemical, University of Naples Federico II, Materials and 
Production Engineering, Via Cintia, 80126 Naples, Italy.
(3)Department of Chemical Sciences, University of Naples Federico II, Via 
Cintia, 80126 Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Environmental, University of Campania 'Luigi Vanvitelli', 
Biological and Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technologies (DiSTABiF), Via Vivaldi, 
81100 Caserta, Italy.
(5)University of Naples Federico II, CeSMA, Via Cintia, 80126 Naples, Italy.
(6)Department of Physics "Ettore Pancini", University of Naples Federico II, Via 
Cintia, 80126 Naples, Italy.

Polyethylene (PE) is high molecular weight synthetic polymer, very hydrofobic 
and hardly biodegradable. To increase polyethylene bio-degradability it is very 
important to find microorganisms that improve the PE hydrophilic level and/or 
reduce the length of its polymeric chain by oxidation. In this study, we 
isolated Cladosporium halotolerans, a fungal species, from the gastric system of 
Galleria mellonella larvae. Here, we show that C. halotolerans grows in the 
presence of PE polymer, it is able to interact with plastic material through its 
hyphae and secretes enzymes involved in PE degradation.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.

DOI: 10.1093/femsec/fiac148
PMID: 36478021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2022 Sep 9;10:915331. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.915331. 
eCollection 2022.

Biodegradation of Low-Density Polyethylene-LDPE by the Lepidopteran Galleria 
Mellonella Reusing Beekeeping Waste.

Poma O(1)(2), Ricce B(1), Beraún J(1), Perez Carpio JE(1), Fernandez H(1), Soria 
J(3).

Author information:
(1)Escuela Profesional de Ingeniería Ambiental, Facultad de Ingeniería y 
Arquitectura, Universidad Peruana Unión, Lima, Perú.
(2)Escuela Profesional de Ingeniería Ambiental, Facultad de Ingeniería y 
Arquitectura, Universidad Peruana Unión, Juliaca, Perú.
(3)Escuela UPG Ingeniería y Arquitectura, Escuela de Posgrado, Universidad 
Peruana Unión, Lima, Perú.

Plastic pollution is one of the most serious environmental problems of this 
century because most plastics are single-use, and once their useful life is 
over, they become pollutants, since their decomposition takes approximately 
100-400 years. The objective of this research is to evaluate the efficacy of 
low-density polyethylene (LDPE) biodegradation by G. mellonella in the district 
of Pangoa, Junín, Peru. For the development of the study, the G. mellonella was 
conditioned in three groups of beekeeping residues (beeswax, balanced diet, and 
wheat bran); after the conditioning stage, the biodegradation treatment was 
developed, which consisted of placing the G. mellonella in terrariums with the 
LDPE, the treatments were carried out at three different times (24, 36, and 
48 h). To evaluate the efficacy of biodegradation, two analyses were taken into 
account: the Raman analysis of the low-density polyethylene samples and the 
weight reduction of the treated LDPE. The results of the Raman analysis 
indicated that the best treatment was the one applied with G. mellonella 
conditioned with beeswax, obtaining a wavelength intensity of 0.45 μ.a., while 
the weight reduction of the LDPE indicated that the best results were given at 
36 h and conditioned with beeswax with a reduction of 236.3 mg. In conclusion, 
the use of G. mellonella for the biodegradation of low-density polyethylene is 
effective when it is conditioned with beeswax and the treatment is carried out 
at 36 h.

Copyright © 2022 Poma, Ricce, Beraún, Perez Carpio, Fernandez and Soria.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.915331
PMCID: PMC9535396
PMID: 36213080

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


40. Nat Commun. 2022 Oct 4;13(1):5568. doi: 10.1038/s41467-022-33127-w.

Wax worm saliva and the enzymes therein are the key to polyethylene degradation 
by Galleria mellonella.

Sanluis-Verdes A(#)(1), Colomer-Vidal P(#)(1), Rodriguez-Ventura F(1), 
Bello-Villarino M(1), Spinola-Amilibia M(2), Ruiz-Lopez E(3), Illanes-Vicioso 
R(3), Castroviejo P(4), Aiese Cigliano R(5), Montoya M(6), Falabella P(7), 
Pesquera C(8), Gonzalez-Legarreta L(8), Arias-Palomo E(2), Solà M(3), Torroba 
T(4), Arias CF(9), Bertocchini F(10).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas-Margarita Salas (CIB)-Consejo Superior 
de Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC), Department of Plant and Microbial 
Biology, Madrid, Spain.
(2)CIB-CSIC, Department of Structural and Chemical Biology, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Structural Biology, Molecular Biology Institute of Barcelona 
(IBMB)-CSIC, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and PCT, University of Burgos, 
Burgos, Spain.
(5)Sequentia Biotech SL, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)CIB-CSIC, Department of Molecular Biomedicine, Madrid, Spain.
(7)Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata, Potenza, Italy.
(8)Department of Chemistry and Process & Resource Engineering, Inorganic 
Chemistry Group-University of Cantabria, Nanomedicine-IDIVAL, Santander, Spain.
(9)Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas-Margarita Salas (CIB)-Consejo Superior 
de Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC), Department of Plant and Microbial 
Biology, Madrid, Spain. tifar@ucm.es.
(10)Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas-Margarita Salas (CIB)-Consejo Superior 
de Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC), Department of Plant and Microbial 
Biology, Madrid, Spain. federica.bertocchini@csic.es.
(#)Contributed equally

Plastic degradation by biological systems with re-utilization of the by-products 
could be a future solution to the global threat of plastic waste accumulation. 
Here, we report that the saliva of Galleria mellonella larvae (wax worms) is 
capable of oxidizing and depolymerizing polyethylene (PE), one of the most 
produced and sturdy polyolefin-derived plastics. This effect is achieved after a 
few hours' exposure at room temperature under physiological conditions (neutral 
pH). The wax worm saliva can overcome the bottleneck step in PE biodegradation, 
namely the initial oxidation step. Within the saliva, we identify two enzymes, 
belonging to the phenol oxidase family, that can reproduce the same effect. To 
the best of our knowledge, these enzymes are the first animal enzymes with this 
capability, opening the way to potential solutions for plastic waste management 
through bio-recycling/up-cycling.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-022-33127-w
PMCID: PMC9532405
PMID: 36195604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


41. Microbiol Spectr. 2022 Oct 26;10(5):e0150422. doi: 10.1128/spectrum.01504-22. 
Epub 2022 Aug 25.

Engineered Fluorescent Strains of Cryptococcus neoformans: a Versatile Toolbox 
for Studies of Host-Pathogen Interactions and Fungal Biology, Including the 
Viable but Nonculturable State.

de Castro RJA(#)(1)(2), Rêgo MTAM(#)(1), Brandão FS(3), Pérez ALA(4), De Marco 
JL(4), Poças-Fonseca MJ(5), Nichols C(6), Alspaugh JA(6), Felipe MSS(7), Alanio 
A(2)(8), Bocca AL(1), Fernandes L(1)(9).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Applied Immunology, Campus Darcy Ribeiro, University of 
Brasíliagrid.7632.0, Asa Norte, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil.
(2)CNRS, Unité de Mycologie Moléculaire, Centre National de Référence Mycoses et 
Antifongiques, Institut Pasteurgrid.428999.7, Paris, France.
(3)Faculty of Health Science, Campus Darcy Ribeiro, University of 
Brasíliagrid.7632.0, Asa Norte, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil.
(4)Department of Cell Biology, Institute of Biological Sciences, Campus Darcy 
Ribeiro, University of Brasíliagrid.7632.0, Asa Norte, Brasilia, Federal 
District, Brazil.
(5)Department of Genetics and Morphology, Institute of Biological Sciences, 
Campus Darcy Ribeiro, University of Brasíliagrid.7632.0, Asa Norte, Brasília, 
Federal District, Brazil.
(6)Duke University School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina, USA.
(7)Catholic University of Brasilia, Campus Asa Norte, Asa Norte, Brasília, 
Federal District, Brazil.
(8)Laboratoire de Mycologie et Parasitologie, AP-HP, Hôpital Saint Louis, 
Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.
(9)Faculty of Ceilândia, Campus UnB Ceilândia, University of 
Brasíliagrid.7632.0, Ceilândia Sul, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil.
(#)Contributed equally

Cryptococcus neoformans is an opportunistic fungal pathogen known for its 
remarkable ability to infect and subvert phagocytes. This ability provides 
survival and persistence within the host and relies on phenotypic plasticity. 
The viable but nonculturable (VBNC) phenotype was recently described in C. 
neoformans, whose study is promising in understanding the pathophysiology of 
cryptococcosis. The use of fluorescent strains is improving host interaction 
research, but it is still underexploited. Here, we fused histone H3 or the 
poly(A) binding protein (Pab) to enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) or 
mCherry, obtaining a set of C. neoformans transformants with different colors, 
patterns of fluorescence, and selective markers (hygromycin B resistance [Hygr] 
or neomycin resistance [Neor]). We validated their similarity to the parental 
strain in the stress response, the expression of virulence-related phenotypes, 
mating, virulence in Galleria mellonella, and survival within murine 
macrophages. PAB-GFP, the brightest transformant, was successfully applied for 
the analysis of phagocytosis by flow cytometry and fluorescence microscopy. 
Moreover, we demonstrated that an engineered fluorescent strain of C. neoformans 
was able to generate VBNC cells. GFP-tagged Pab1, a key regulator of the stress 
response, evidenced nuclear retention of Pab1 and the assembly of cytoplasmic 
stress granules, unveiling posttranscriptional mechanisms associated with 
dormant C. neoformans cells. Our results support that the PAB-GFP strain is a 
useful tool for research on C. neoformans. IMPORTANCE Cryptococcus neoformans is 
a human-pathogenic yeast that can undergo a dormant state and is responsible for 
over 180,000 deaths annually worldwide. We engineered a set of fluorescent 
transformants to aid in research on C. neoformans. A mutant with GFP-tagged Pab1 
improved fluorescence-based techniques used in host interaction studies. 
Moreover, this mutant induced a viable but nonculturable phenotype and uncovered 
posttranscriptional mechanisms associated with dormant C. neoformans. The 
experimental use of fluorescent mutants may shed light on C. neoformans-host 
interactions and fungal biology, including dormant phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1128/spectrum.01504-22
PMCID: PMC9603711
PMID: 36005449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


42. Front Microbiol. 2022 Jul 5;13:918861. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2022.918861. 
eCollection 2022.

The Bacterial and Fungal Gut Microbiota of the Greater Wax Moth, Galleria 
mellonella L. Consuming Polyethylene and Polystyrene.

Ruiz Barrionuevo JM(1)(2), Vilanova-Cuevas B(3), Alvarez A(2)(4), Martín 
E(2)(5), Malizia A(1), Galindo-Cardona A(5)(6), de Cristóbal RE(7), Occhionero 
MA(2), Chalup A(2)(5), Monmany-Garzia AC(1), Godoy-Vitorino F(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ecología Regional (IER), Universidad Nacional de Tucumán 
(UNT)-Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), 
Tucumán, Argentina.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Naturales e Instituto Miguel Lillo, Universidad Nacional 
de Tucumán (UNT), Tucumán, Argentina.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Medical Zoology, School of Medicine, 
University of Puerto Rico, Medical Sciences Campus, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
(4)Planta Piloto de Procesos Industriales Microbiológicos (PROIMI-CONICET), 
Tucumán, Argentina.
(5)Fundación Miguel Lillo (FML), Tucumán, Argentina.
(6)Centro Científico Tecnológico (CCT-NOA SUR), Consejo Nacional de 
Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Tucumán, Argentina.
(7)INSIBIO (CONICET - UNT), Instituto de Química Biológica "Dr. Bernabé Bloj", 
Facultad de Bioquímica, Química y Farmacia, Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, 
Tucumán, Argentina.

Plastic production has been increasing exponentially in the last 60 years, but 
plastic disposal is out of control, resulting in the pollution of all ecosystems 
on Earth. Finding alternative environmentally sustainable choices, such as 
biodegradation by insects and their associated gut microbiota, is crucial, 
however we have only begun to characterize these ecosystems. Some bacteria and 
one fungus have been previously identified in the gut of Greater Wax Moth larvae 
(Galleria mellonella L., Lepidoptera, Pyralidae) located mainly in the Northern 
hemisphere. The aim of this study was to describe changes in the gut microbiota 
associated with the consumption of polyethylene and polystyrene by the Greater 
Wax Moth in Argentina, considering both bacteria and fungi. Larvae were fed 
polyethylene, polystyrene and beeswax as control for 7 days. Next generation 
sequencing revealed changes in the bacterial gut microbiome of the wax moth 
larvae at the phyla and genus levels, with an increase in two Pseudomonas 
strains. The fungal communities showed no differences in composition between 
diets, only changing in relative abundance. This is the first report of both 
bacterial and fungal communities associated with a plastivore insect. The 
results are promising and call for more studies concerning a potential 
multi-kingdom synergy in the plastic biodegradation process.

Copyright © 2022 Ruiz Barrionuevo, Vilanova-Cuevas, Alvarez, Martín, Malizia, 
Galindo-Cardona, de Cristóbal, Occhionero, Chalup, Monmany-Garzia and 
Godoy-Vitorino.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2022.918861
PMCID: PMC9294514
PMID: 35865934

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


43. Can J Microbiol. 2022 Sep 1;68(9):594-604. doi: 10.1139/cjm-2022-0058. Epub 2022 
Jul 21.

Diet and ontogeny drastically alter the larval microbiome of the invertebrate 
model Galleria mellonella.

Gohl P(1), LeMoine CMR(1), Cassone BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB R78 6A9, Canada.

Larvae of the greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella) are an emerging animal 
model to study the innate immune response and biodegradation of plastic 
polymers. Both of these complex biological processes are likely impacted by the 
plasticity of host-microbe interactions, which remains understudied in 
lepidopterans. Consequently, we carried out 16S rRNA sequencing to explore the 
effect diet (natural, artificial) has on the bacterial assemblages of G. 
mellonella in different tissues (gut, fat bodies, silk glands) throughout 
development (eggs, six instar stages, adults). The microbiome was rich in 
diversity, with Proteobacteria and Firmicutes being the most represented phyla. 
Contrary to other lepidopterans, G. mellonella appears to possess a resident 
microbiome dominated by Ralstonia. As larvae progress through development, the 
bacterial assemblages become increasingly shaped by the caterpillar's diet. In 
particular, a number of bacteria genera widely associated with the G. mellonella 
microbiome (e.g., Enterococcus and Enterbacter) were significantly enriched on 
an artificial diet. Overall, these results indicate that the G. mellonella 
microbiome is not as simplistic and homogenous as previously described. Rather, 
its bacterial communities are drastically affected by both diet and ontogeny, 
which should be taken into consideration in future studies planning to use G. 
mellonella as model species.

DOI: 10.1139/cjm-2022-0058
PMID: 35863073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Sci Total Environ. 2022 Sep 10;838(Pt 4):156199. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.156199. Epub 2022 May 28.

Bacterial colonisation dynamics of household plastics in a coastal environment.

Lear L(1), Padfield D(2), Dowsett T(1), Jones M(1), Kay S(1), Hayward A(3), Vos 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Environment and Human Health, University of Exeter 
Medical School, Environment and Sustainability Institute, Penryn Campus, TR10 
9FE, United Kingdom.
(2)European Centre for Environment and Human Health, University of Exeter 
Medical School, Environment and Sustainability Institute, Penryn Campus, TR10 
9FE, United Kingdom. Electronic address: d.padfield@exeter.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Biosciences, University of Exeter, Penryn Campus, TR10 9FE, 
United Kingdom.

Accumulation of plastics in the marine environment has widespread detrimental 
consequences for ecosystems and wildlife. Marine plastics are rapidly colonised 
by a wide diversity of bacteria, including human pathogens, posing potential 
risks to health. Here, we investigate the effect of polymer type, residence time 
and estuarine location on bacterial colonisation of common household plastics, 
including pathogenic bacteria. We submerged five main household plastic types: 
low-density PE (LDPE), high-density PE (HDPE), polypropylene (PP), polyvinyl 
chloride (PVC) and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) at an estuarine site in 
Cornwall (U.K.) and tracked bacterial colonisation dynamics. Using both 
culture-dependent and culture-independent approaches, we found that bacteria 
rapidly colonised plastics irrespective of polymer type, reaching culturable 
densities of up to 1000 cells cm3 after 7 weeks. Community composition of the 
biofilms changed over time, but not among polymer types. The presence of 
pathogenic bacteria, quantified using the insect model Galleria mellonella, 
increased dramatically over a five-week period, with Galleria mortality 
increasing from 4% in week one to 65% in week five. No consistent differences in 
virulence were observed between polymer types. Pathogens isolated from plastic 
biofilms using Galleria enrichment included Serratia and Enterococcus species 
and they harboured a wide range of antimicrobial resistance genes. Our findings 
show that plastics in coastal waters are rapidly colonised by a wide diversity 
of bacteria independent of polymer type. Further, our results show that marine 
plastic biofilms become increasingly associated with virulent bacteria over 
time.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.156199
PMID: 35636543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


45. Front Microbiol. 2022 May 4;13:868152. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2022.868152. 
eCollection 2022.

Phenotypic and Genotypic Characteristics of a Tigecycline-Resistant 
Acinetobacter pittii Isolate Carrying bla (NDM-1) and the Novel bla (OXA) 
Allelic Variant bla (OXA-1045).

Ding Z(1), Li Z(1), Zhao Y(1), Hao J(1), Li T(1), Liu Y(1), Zeng Z(1), Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Affiliated Hospital of Southwest 
Medical University, Luzhou, China.

A tigecycline-resistant Acinetobacter pittii clinical strain from pleural fluid 
carrying a bla NDM-1 gene and a novel bla OXA gene, bla OXA-1045, was isolated 
and characterized. The AP2044 strain acquired two copies of the bla NDM-1 gene 
and six antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) from other pathogens. According to 
the whole-genome investigation, the GC ratios of ARGs (50-60%) were greater than 
those of the chromosomal backbone (39.46%), indicating that ARGs were 
horizontally transferred. OXA-1045 belonged to the OXA-213 subfamily and the 
amino acid sequence of OXA-1045 showed 89% similarity to the amino acid 
sequences of OXA-213. Then, bla OXA-1045 and bla OXA-213 were cloned and the 
minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of β-lactams in the transformants were 
determined using the broth microdilution method. OXA-1045 was able to confer a 
reduced susceptibility to piperacillin and piperacillin-tazobactam compared to 
OXA-213. AP2044 strain exhibited low pathogenicity in Galleria mellonella 
infection models. The observation of condensed biofilm using the crystal violet 
staining method and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) suggested that the AP2044 
strain was a weak biofilm producer. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR 
(qRT-PCR) was used to detect the expression of resistance-nodulation-cell 
division (RND) efflux pump-related genes. The transcription level of adeB and 
adeJ genes increased significantly and was correlated with tigecycline 
resistance. Therefore, our genomic and phenotypic investigations revealed that 
the AP2044 strain had significant genome plasticity and natural transformation 
potential, and the emergence of antibiotic resistance in these unusual bacteria 
should be a concern for future investigations.

Copyright © 2022 Ding, Li, Zhao, Hao, Li, Liu, Zeng and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2022.868152
PMCID: PMC9116503
PMID: 35602052

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


46. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2022 Sep;29(45):68132-68142. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-022-20534-1. Epub 2022 May 9.

Consumption of low-density polyethylene, polypropylene, and polystyrene 
materials by larvae of the greater wax moth, Galleria mellonella L. 
(Lepidoptera, Pyralidae), impacts on their ontogeny.

Ruiz Barrionuevo JM(1)(2), Martín E(2)(3), Galindo Cardona A(3)(4), Malizia 
A(1), Chalup A(2)(3), de Cristóbal RE(5), Monmany Garzia AC(6).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ecología Regional (Universidad Nacional de Tucumán - Consejo 
Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas), CC34, Ciudad Universitaria 
Horco Molle, Yerba Buena, Tucumán, Argentina.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Naturales e Instituto Miguel Lillo (Universidad Nacional 
de Tucumán), Miguel Lillo 205, San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán, Argentina.
(3)Fundación Miguel Lillo, Miguel Lillo 251, San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán, 
Argentina.
(4)CCT Noa Sur, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, 
Crisóstomo Alvarez 722, San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán, Argentina.
(5)Instituto Superior de Investigaciones Biológicas (Universidad Nacional de 
Tucumán - Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas), Chacabuco 
461, San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán, Argentina.
(6)Instituto de Ecología Regional (Universidad Nacional de Tucumán - Consejo 
Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas), CC34, Ciudad Universitaria 
Horco Molle, Yerba Buena, Tucumán, Argentina. acmonmany@conicet.gov.ar.

Low-density polyethylene (LDPE), biaxially oriented polypropylene (BOPP), and 
expanded polystyrene (EXPS) are the most common plastics found in every home of 
the world, but only ~ 10% enter the recycling chains. Consequently, the study of 
plastic biodegradation by microorganisms and insects, such as the wax moths, has 
gained special interest. Galleria mellonella (L.) has been shown to consume 
single-layered polyethylene and polystyrene, though biological impacts of this 
consumption have been rarely reported. We evaluated the consumption of different 
plastics by G. mellonella larvae (L7, mean size: 25-30 mm) and its effect on 
larval duration, survival, and development. For this, we offered the larvae five 
diets: single-layered LDPE, EXPS, BOPP, triple-layered polyethylene (SB, for 
silo-bags), and a control with beeswax. We recorded the state and weight of the 
materials and the state of larvae until they reached the adult stage. Larvae 
consumed more PE (both LDPE and SB) and EXPS than BOPP; still, they were able to 
emerge as adults in all treatments. Larvae that consumed plastics turned into 
pupal stage faster than those that consumed beeswax, regardless of the type and 
amount of plastic consumed. This is the first report of wild G. mellonella 
larvae in Argentina consuming biaxially polypropylene and silo-bags.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-022-20534-1
PMID: 35532825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Chemosphere. 2022 Apr;293:133600. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.133600. Epub 
2022 Jan 11.

Hydrocarbon-based plastics: Progress and perspectives on consumption and 
biodegradation by insect larvae.

Pivato AF(1), Miranda GM(2), Prichula J(1), Lima JEA(2), Ligabue RA(2), Seixas 
A(3), Trentin DS(4).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), 
Departamento de Ciências Básicas da Saúde, Laboratório de Microbiologia 
Molecular, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(2)Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Escola 
Politécnica, Laboratório de Organometálicos e Resinas, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande 
do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), 
Departamento de Farmacociências, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(4)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), 
Departamento de Ciências Básicas da Saúde, Laboratório de Microbiologia 
Molecular, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Electronic address: 
daniellest@ufcspa.edu.br.

The obvious contrast between the remarkable durability and the high consumption 
of plastic products leads to the deposition of at least 100 million tons of 
plastics per year in nature. Since 2010, several studies have shown the 
potential of insect larvae to biodegrade different types of plastics, at higher 
rates than those reported for microorganisms. This review discusses a 
compilation of studies about the consumption and biodegradation of 
hydrocarbon-based plastics, particularly PE, PS, PP and PVC, by lepidopteran and 
coleopteran larvae. Insects of the Coleoptera order seem to have a better 
adaptation for PS biodegradation, while those of the Lepidoptera order can 
better biodegrade PE. Tenebrio molitor biomineralize PE and PS into CO2, and PVC 
into HCl; while Tenebrio obscurus and Zophobas atratus converts PE and PS into 
CO2, respectively. Plastic biodegradation by T. molitor has been shown to be 
dependent on microbiota, exception for PE. Similar PS and PE biodegradation 
profile has been shown for T. obscurus. PS, PP and PE biodegradation by Z. 
atratus is also reported to be microbial-dependent. For Galleria mellonella, 
microbial role on PE biodegradation is still controversial, but the PS 
metabolism was proved to be microbiota-independent. Advances in this field has 
stimulated new studies with other insect species, which need to be better 
explored. Uncovering and understanding the chemical processes behind the innate 
plastic biodegradation by insect larvae will open the perspective to new 
eco-friendly innovative biotechnological solutions for the challenge of plastic 
waste.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.133600
PMID: 35031254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Environ Sci Technol. 2022 Jan 4;56(1):525-534. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.1c03417. 
Epub 2021 Dec 21.

Plastic biodegradation: Do Galleria mellonella Larvae Bioassimilate 
Polyethylene? A Spectral Histology Approach Using Isotopic Labeling and Infrared 
Microspectroscopy.

Réjasse A(1), Waeytens J(2)(3), Deniset-Besseau A(3), Crapart N(4)(5), 
Nielsen-Leroux C(1), Sandt C(6).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech, Micalis Institute, 78350 
Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(2)Structure et Fonction des Membranes Biologiques, Université libre de 
Bruxelles, B-1050 Bruxelles, Belgique.
(3)Université Paris-Saclay, CNRS, Institut de Chimie Physique, UMR 8000, 91405 
Orsay, France.
(4)UMR 1313 GABI, Abridge, INRAE, Université Paris-Saclay, 78350 Jouy en Josas, 
France.
(5)Exilone, 78990 Elancourt, France.
(6)SMIS beamline, Synchrotron Soleil, L'Orme des Merisiers, BP 48 Saint Aubin, 
91192 Cedex Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

Environmental pollution by the nearly nonbiodegradable polyethylene (PE) 
plastics is of major concern; thus, organisms capable of biodegrading PE are 
required. The larvae of the Greater Wax Moth, Galleria mellonella (Gm), were 
identified as a potential candidate to digest PE. In this study, we tested 
whether PE was metabolized by Gm larvae and could be found in their tissues. We 
examined the implication of the larval gut microbiota by using conventional and 
axenic reared insects. First, our study showed that neither beeswax nor LDPE 
alone favor the growth of young larvae. We then used Fourier transform infrared 
microspectroscopy (μFTIR) to detect deuterium in larvae fed with isotopically 
labeled food. Deuterated molecules were found in tissues of larvae fed with 
deuterium labeled oil for 24 and 72 h, proving that μFTIR can detect 
metabolization of 1 to 2 mg of deuterated food. Then, Gm larvae were fed with 
deuterated PE (821 kDa). No bioassimilation was detected in the tissues of 
larvae that had ingested 1 to 5 mg of deuterated PE in 72 h or in 19 days, but 
micrometer sized PE particles were found in the larval digestive tract cavities. 
We evidenced weak biodegradation of 641 kDa PE films in contact for 24 h with 
the dissected gut of conventional larvae and in the PED4 particles from excreted 
larval frass. Our study confirms that Gm larvae can biodegrade HDPE but cannot 
necessarily metabolize it.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.1c03417
PMID: 34932348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Emerg Microbes Infect. 2022 Dec;11(1):136-146. doi: 
10.1080/22221751.2021.2017756.

Host-pathogen interactions upon Candida auris infection: fungal behaviour and 
immune response in Galleria mellonella.

Garcia-Bustos V(1)(2)(3), Pemán J(2)(4), Ruiz-Gaitán A(2), Cabañero-Navalon 
MD(1), Cabanilles-Boronat A(3), Fernández-Calduch M(3), Marcilla-Barreda L(3), 
Sigona-Giangreco IA(2)(4), Salavert M(1)(2), Tormo-Mas MÁ(2), Ruiz-Saurí A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, University and 
Polytechnic La Fe Hospital, Valencia, Spain.
(2)Severe Infection Research Group, Health Research Institute La Fe, Valencia, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, University of 
Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(4)Department of Medical Microbiology, University and Polytechnic La Fe 
Hospital, Valencia, Spain.

Candida auris has globally emerged as a multidrug-resistant fungus linked to 
healthcare-associated outbreaks. There is still limited evidence on its 
virulence, pathogenicity determinants, and complex host-pathogen interactions. 
This study analyzes the in vivo fungal behaviour, immune response, and 
host-pathogen interactions upon C. auris infection compared to C. albicans and 
C. parapsilosis in G. mellonella. This was performed by immunolabelling fungal 
structures and larval plasmatocytes and using a quantitative approach 
incorporating bioinformatic morphometric techniques into the study of microbial 
pathogenesis. C. auris presents a remarkably higher immunogenic activity than 
expected at its moderate degree of tissue invasion. It induces a greater 
inflammatory response than C. albicans and C. parapsilosis at the expense of 
plasmatocyte nodule formation, especially in non-aggregative strains. It 
specifically invades the larval respiratory system, in a pattern not previously 
observed in other Candida species, and presents inter-phenotypic tissue tropism 
differences. C. auris filaments in vivo less frequently than C. albicans or C. 
parapsilosis mostly through pseudohyphal growth. Filamentation might not be a 
major pathogenic determinant in C. auris, as less virulent aggregative 
phenotypes form pseudohyphae to a greater extent. C. auris has important both 
interspecific and intraspecific virulence and phenotype heterogeneity, with 
aggregative phenotypes of C. auris sharing characteristics with low pathogenic 
species such as C. parapsilosis. Our work suggests that C. auris owns an 
important morphogenetic plasticity that distinguishes it from other yeasts of 
the genus. Routine phenotypic identification of aggregative or non-aggregative 
phenotypes should be performed in the clinical setting as it may impact patient 
management.

DOI: 10.1080/22221751.2021.2017756
PMCID: PMC8725852
PMID: 34890523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


50. J Hazard Mater. 2022 Mar 5;425:127862. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.127862. Epub 
2021 Nov 25.

Fat on plastic: Metabolic consequences of an LDPE diet in the fat body of the 
greater wax moth larvae (Galleria mellonella).

Cassone BJ(1), Grove HC(2), Kurchaba N(2), Geronimo P(2), LeMoine CMR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB R78 6A9, Canada. 
Electronic address: cassoneb@brandonu.ca.
(2)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB R78 6A9, Canada.
(3)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB R78 6A9, Canada. 
Electronic address: lemoinec@brandonu.ca.

The caterpillar larvae of the greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella) are avid 
plastivores, as when provided a diet of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) they 
actively feed on it. Recent work has highlighted the importance of their 
microbiome in the putative biodegradation of this plastic polymer, though the 
impact of plastic metabolism on the insect host is less clear. In the present 
study, we undertook an integrative approach spanning all levels of biological 
organization to explore the effects of a plastic diet on the metabolic 
physiology of this animal model of plastic biodegradation. We demonstrate that 
an LDPE diet is not sufficient to maintain optimal larval growth and survival. 
In addition, we confirm that plastic fed waxworms retain their fat body lipid 
stores in a manner proportional to their individual polyethylene consumption 
suggesting a direct effect of LDPE biodegradation. At the functional level, the 
oxidative capacity of the fat body of LDPE-fed larvae is maintained reflecting 
unaltered metabolic function of the tissue. Finally, metabolomic analyses 
confirmed fat body lipid stores maintenance in LDPE-fed worms, but uncovered 
various other nutritional deficiencies. Overall, this work unveils novel 
insights in the complex interplay between LDPE biodegradation and the metabolic 
physiology of this model plastivore.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.127862
PMID: 34872037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Genetics. 2022 Jan 4;220(1):iyab142. doi: 10.1093/genetics/iyab142.

Clonal evolution in serially passaged Cryptococcus neoformans × deneoformans 
hybrids reveals a heterogenous landscape of genomic change.

Michelotti LA(1), Sun S(2), Heitman J(2), James TY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

Cryptococcus neoformans × deneoformans hybrids (also known as serotype AD 
hybrids) are basidiomycete yeasts that are common in a clinical setting. Like 
many hybrids, the AD hybrids are largely locked at the F1 stage and are mostly 
unable to undergo normal meiotic reproduction. However, these F1 hybrids, which 
display a high (∼10%) sequence divergence are known to genetically diversify 
through mitotic recombination and aneuploidy, and this diversification may be 
adaptive. In this study, we evolved a single AD hybrid genotype in six diverse 
environments by serial passaging and then used genome resequencing of evolved 
clones to determine evolutionary mechanisms of adaptation. The evolved clones 
generally increased fitness after passaging, accompanied by an average of 3.3 
point mutations, 2.9 loss of heterozygosity (LOH) events, and 0.7 trisomic 
chromosomes per clone. LOH occurred through nondisjunction of chromosomes, 
crossing over consistent with break-induced replication, and gene conversion, in 
that order of prevalence. The breakpoints of these recombination events were 
significantly associated with regions of the genome with lower sequence 
divergence between the parents and clustered in sub-telomeric regions, notably 
in regions that had undergone introgression between the two parental species. 
Parallel evolution was observed, particularly through repeated homozygosity via 
nondisjunction, yet there was little evidence of environment-specific parallel 
change for either LOH, aneuploidy, or mutations. These data show that AD hybrids 
have both a remarkable genomic plasticity and yet are challenged in the ability 
to recombine through sequence divergence and chromosomal rearrangements, a 
scenario likely limiting the precision of adaptive evolution to novel 
environments.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Genetics 
Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/iyab142
PMCID: PMC8733418
PMID: 34849836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


52. J Hazard Mater. 2022 Feb 5;423(Pt B):127213. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.127213. 
Epub 2021 Sep 16.

Complete digestion/biodegradation of polystyrene microplastics by greater wax 
moth (Galleria mellonella) larvae: Direct in vivo evidence, gut microbiota 
independence, and potential metabolic pathways.

Wang S(1), Shi W(1), Huang Z(1), Zhou N(1), Xie Y(1), Tang Y(1), Hu F(1), Liu 
G(1), Zheng H(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.
(2)College of Animal Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China. 
Electronic address: hqzheng@zju.edu.cn.

Biodegradation of plastic polymers by plastic-eating insects such as the greater 
wax moth (Galleria mellonella) might be promising for reducing plastic 
pollution, but direct in vivo evidence along with the related metabolic pathways 
and role of gut microbiota require further investigation. In this study, we 
investigated the in vivo degradation process, underlying potential metabolic 
pathways, and involvement of the gut microbiota in polystyrene (PS) 
biodegradation via enforcing injection of G. mellonella larvae (Tianjin, China) 
with PS microbeads (0.5 mg/larva; Mn: 540 and Mw: 550) and general-purpose PS 
powders (2.5 mg/larva; Mn: 95,600 and Mw: 217,000). The results indicated that 
the PS microplastics were depolymerized and completely digested independent of 
gut microbiota in G. mellonella although the metabolism could be enhanced by gut 
microbiota. Based on comparative metabolomic and liquid chromatography analyses, 
we proposed two potential metabolic pathways of PS in the intestine of G. 
mellonella larvae: the styrene oxide-phenylacetaldehyde and 
4-methylphenol-4-hydroxybenzaldehyde-4-hydroxybenzoate pathways. These results 
suggest that the enzymes of G. mellonella are responsible for the efficient 
biodegradation of PS. Further study is needed to identify these enzymes and 
investigate the underlying catalytic mechanisms.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.127213
PMID: 34844347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Polymers (Basel). 2021 Oct 14;13(20):3539. doi: 10.3390/polym13203539.

Biodegradation of Polystyrene by Tenebrio molitor, Galleria mellonella, and 
Zophobas atratus Larvae and Comparison of Their Degradation Effects.

Jiang S(1), Su T(1), Zhao J(1), Wang Z(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Petrochemical Engineering, Liaoning Petrochemical University, 
Fushun 113001, China.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, 
Shenyang Agricultural University, Shenyang 110866, China.

Plastic waste pollution and its difficult degradation process have aroused 
widespread concern. Research has demonstrated that the larvae of Tenebrio 
molitor (yellow mealworm), Galleria mellonella (greater wax moth), and Zophobas 
atratus (superworm) possess a biodegradation ability for polystyrene (PS) within 
the gut microbiota of these organisms. In this study, the difference in PS 
degradation and the changes of the gut microbiota were compared before and after 
feeding PS. The results showed that superworm had the strongest PS consumption 
capacity and the highest survival rate during the 30 d experiment period. They 
all could degrade PS to different degrees. Superworm showed the highest ability 
to degrade PS into low-molecular-weight substances, while yellow mealworm 
depolymerized PS strongly by destroying the benzene ring. The changes of the 
intestinal microbiome caused by feeding PS showed that after ingesting PS, there 
was a decrease in community diversity in superworm and yellow mealworm, but an 
increase in greater wax moth. Meanwhile, Enterococcus and Enterobacteriaceae, 
found in all three species' larvae upon 20 d of PS feeding, might play an 
important role in PS degradation. The results will provide more accurate PS 
degradation comparative data of the three species' larvae and theoretical 
guidance for further research on the efficient PS biodegradations.

DOI: 10.3390/polym13203539
PMCID: PMC8541195
PMID: 34685298

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


54. Microorganisms. 2021 Oct 19;9(10):2172. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms9102172.

Novel Phage-Derived Depolymerase with Activity against Proteus mirabilis 
Biofilms.

Rice CJ(1), Kelly SA(1), O'Brien SC(1), Melaugh EM(1), Ganacias JCB(1), Chai 
ZH(1), Gilmore BF(1), Skvortsov T(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast BT9 7BL, UK.

The adherence of Proteus mirabilis to the surface of urinary catheters leads to 
colonization and eventual blockage of the catheter lumen by unique crystalline 
biofilms produced by these opportunistic pathogens, making P. mirabilis one of 
the leading causes of catheter-associated urinary tract infections. The Proteus 
biofilms reduce efficiency of antibiotic-based treatment, which in turn 
increases the risk of antibiotic resistance development. Bacteriophages and 
their enzymes have recently become investigated as alternative treatment 
options. In this study, a novel Proteus bacteriophage (vB_PmiS_PM-CJR) was 
isolated from an environmental sample and fully characterized. The phage 
displayed depolymerase activity and the subsequent genome analysis revealed the 
presence of a pectate lyase domain in its tail spike protein. The protein was 
heterologously expressed and purified; the ability of the purified tail spike to 
degrade Proteus biofilms was tested. We showed that the application of the tail 
spike protein was able to reduce the adherence of bacterial biofilm to plastic 
pegs in a MBEC (minimum biofilm eradication concentration) assay and improve the 
survival of Galleria mellonella larvae infected with Proteus mirabilis. Our 
study is the first to successfully isolate and characterize a biofilm 
depolymerase from a Proteus phage, demonstrating the potential of this group of 
enzymes in treatment of Proteus infections.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms9102172
PMCID: PMC8539402
PMID: 34683494

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


55. Sci Total Environ. 2022 Feb 10;807(Pt 3):151037. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.151037. Epub 2021 Oct 16.

Feeding preference of insect larvae to waste electrical and electronic equipment 
plastics.

Zhu P(1), Shen Y(1), Li X(2), Liu X(1), Qian G(1), Zhou J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
lixiaowei419@shu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Technology 
Sydney, 15 Broadway, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia.

Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) plastics not only pollute the 
environment, but are challenging to treat in an environmentally friendly manner. 
Biodegradation by insect larvae is potentially an eco-friendly method to treat 
WEEE plastics, but information about the feeding preference of insect larvae to 
WEEE plastics is lacking. In this study, a total of nine WEEE and pristine 
plastics were chosen to feed larvae of the following two insect species, i.e. 
Galleria mellonella and Tenebrio molitor. G. mellonella larvae significantly 
favor corresponding pristine plastics compared to two types of WEEE plastics, 
waste rigid polyurethane (RPU) and waste polystyrene (PS). One possible 
explanation is the increased chlorine or metals in the WEEE plastics measured 
using X-ray fluorescence spectrometer analysis. Scanning electron microscopy and 
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy show that the destruction of physical 
structures and changes in surface functional groups were found in the two types 
of WEEE plastics in the larval frass, implying that the larvae partly 
biodegraded the plastics. Meanwhile, the powdered waste high impact polystyrene 
plastics (WHIPS) were ingested, but not the lumpy ones, indicating that the 
consumption by G. mellonella larvae is improved by the WHIPS physical 
modification. In addition, G. mellonella larvae presented the following 
decreasing preference for pristine plastics under individual-plastic-fed mode: 
RPU > phenol-formaldehyde resin > polyethylene 
(PE) > polypropylene > PS ≈ polyvinyl chloride; this is possibly due to 
differences in physical properties and chemical structures of the plastics; 
feeding preference of the larvae under multiple-plastics-fed mode is relatively 
consistent to that under individual-plastic-fed mode. Interestingly, the 
consumption by G. mellonella larvae of PE is higher than that of PS, while T. 
molitor larvae showed the opposite trend, implying that insect larvae have 
different plastics preference. The findings provide insights into biodegradation 
of WEEE plastics by insect larvae.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.151037
PMID: 34666086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


56. Folia Microbiol (Praha). 2022 Feb;67(1):133-141. doi: 
10.1007/s12223-021-00925-6. Epub 2021 Oct 10.

Characterization of the gut microbes of greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella 
Linnaeus) shows presence of potential polymer degraders.

Saikia SS(1), Borah BK(2), Baruah G(3), Rokozeno(4), Deka MK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Assam Agricultural University, 
Jorhat, 785013, Assam, India.
(2)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Assam Agricultural University, 
Jorhat, 785013, Assam, India. basantabora@gmail.com.
(3)Environment Division, Assam Science Technology & Environment Council, Bigyan 
Bhawan, Guwahati, 781005, Assam, India.
(4)Department of Entomology, Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat, 785013, 
Assam, India.

Greater wax moth (GWM), Galleria mellonella (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), is a 
highly destructive honey bee pest prevalent throughout the world. It is 
considered as a major factor to the alarming decline in honey bee population. 
GWM destroys active honey combs as it feeds on the beeswax and lays eggs in bee 
hives, and the primary food of their larva is beeswax. Beeswax is a polymer 
composed mainly of saturated and unsaturated, linear and complex monoesters, and 
hydrocarbons. The most frequent bond in beeswax is ethene (CH2-CH2) which is 
also found in the common plastic polyethylene. As wax-digestion is not a common 
animal character, we hypothesized about a possible role of GWM gut microflora in 
the process; which could possibly degrade polyethylene-like polymers as well. 
This study was aimed to identify the GWM gut microflora via culture-dependant 
approach. We characterized several bacterial species based on the culture 
characteristics, Gram-reaction, and various biochemical tests. Sequencing of 
16S-rDNA revealed nine bacterial and one microalgal species from GWM gut. The 
bacterial species included Gram-positive Exiguobacterium aestuarii, Bacillus 
circulans, Microbacterium zaea, Microbacterium sp. and Enterococcus faecalis; 
Gram-negative Agrobacterium sp., Sphingomonas pseudosanguinis, Sphingobium 
yanoikuyae and Acinetobacter radioresistens; the microalgae was Picochlorum 
oklahomensis. Some of them have been previously reported to degrade polycyclic 
aromatic hydrocarbon, low-density polyethylene, and 2-methylphenanthrene. 
Meanwhile, the microalga, P. oklahomensis, was reported to steal bacterial genes 
to adapt with abiotic stresses. Further investigation is necessary to explore 
the precise details about polymer degrading capabilities of these microbes; 
nevertheless, this study builds a foundation for elaborate and advanced future 
research.

© 2021. Institute of Microbiology, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, 
v.v.i.

DOI: 10.1007/s12223-021-00925-6
PMID: 34628573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Open Forum Infect Dis. 2021 Jul 30;8(9):ofab386. doi: 10.1093/ofid/ofab386. 
eCollection 2021 Sep.

Increased Capsule Thickness and Hypermotility Are Traits of Carbapenem-Resistant 
Acinetobacter baumannii ST3 Strains Causing Fulminant Infection.

Rakovitsky N(1), Lellouche J(1), Ben David D(1)(2), Frenk S(1), Elmalih P(1), 
Weber G(3)(4), Kon H(1), Schwartz D(1), Wolfhart L(1), Temkin E(1), Carmeli 
Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Antibiotic Resistance and Infection Control, Ministry 
of Health, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(2)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(3)The B. Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion, Israel Institute of 
Technology, Haifa, Israel.
(4)Infectious Disease and Infection Control Unit, Carmel Medical Center, Haifa, 
Israel.

BACKGROUND: Acinetobacter baumannii is a successful nosocomial pathogen, causing 
severe, life-threatening infections in hospitalized patients, including 
pneumonia and bloodstream infections. The spread of carbapenem-resistant 
Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAB) strains is a major health threat worldwide. The 
successful spread of CRAB is mostly due to its highly plastic genome. Although 
some virulence factors associated with CRAB have been uncovered, many mechanisms 
contributing to its success are not fully understood.
METHODS: Here we describe strains of CRAB that were isolated from fulminant 
cases in 2 hospitals in Israel. These isolates show a rare hypermucoid (HM) 
phenotype and were investigated using phenotypic assays, comparative genomics, 
and an in vivo Galleria mellonella model.
RESULTS: The 3 isolates belonged to the ST3 international clonal type and were 
closely related to each other, as shown by Fourier-transform infrared 
spectroscopy and phylogenetic analyses. These isolates possessed thickened 
capsules and a dense filamentous extracellular polysaccharides matrix as shown 
by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and overexpressed the capsule 
polysaccharide synthesis pathway-related wzc gene.
CONCLUSIONS: The HM isolates possessed a unique combination of virulence genes 
involved in iron metabolism, protein secretion, adherence, and membrane 
glycosylation. HM strains were more virulent than control strains in 2 G. 
mellonella infection models. In conclusion, our findings demonstrated several 
virulence factors, all present in 3 CRAB isolates with rare hypermucoid 
phenotypes.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/ofid/ofab386
PMCID: PMC8423469
PMID: 34514017


58. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2021 Aug 18;9:736062. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2021.736062. 
eCollection 2021.

Isolation, Identification, and Characterization of Polystyrene-Degrading 
Bacteria From the Gut of Galleria Mellonella (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) Larvae.

Jiang S(1), Su T(1), Zhao J(1), Wang Z(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Petrochemical Engineering, Liaoning Petrochemical University, 
Fushun, China.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, 
Shenyang Agricultural University, Shenyang, China.

Polystyrene (PS) is a widely used petroleum-based plastic, that pollutes the 
environment because it is difficult to degrade. In this study, a PS degrading 
bacterium identified as Massilia sp. FS1903 was successfully isolated from the 
gut of Galleria mellonella (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) larvae that were fed with PS 
foam. Scanning electron microscopy and X-ray energy dispersive spectrometry 
showed that the structure and morphology of the PS film was destroyed by FS 
1903, and that more oxygen appeared on the degraded PS film. A water contact 
angle assay verified the chemical change of the PS film from initially 
hydrophobic to hydrophilic after degradation. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy 
further demonstrated that more oxygen-containing functional groups were 
generated during PS degradation. After 30 days of bacterial stain incubation 
with 0.15 g PS, 80 ml MSM, 30°C and PS of Mn 64400 and Mw 144400 Da, the weight 
of the PS film significantly decreased, with 12.97 ± 1.05% weight loss. This 
amount of degradation exceeds or is comparable to that previously reported for 
other species of bacteria reported to degrade PS. These results show that 
Massilia sp. FS1903 can potentially be used to degrade PS waste.

Copyright © 2021 Jiang, Su, Zhao and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2021.736062
PMCID: PMC8416307
PMID: 34485265

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


59. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2021 Aug 16;37(9):154. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-021-03122-2.

Polyurethane foam as an inert support using concentrated media improves quality 
and spore production from Bacillus thuringiensis.

Flores-Tufiño B(1), Figueroa-Martínez F(2), Viniegra-González G(1), Loera O(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biotecnología, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa, 
09340, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Catedrático CONACyT, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa, 09340, 
Mexico City, Mexico.
(3)Departamento de Biotecnología, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa, 
09340, Mexico City, Mexico. loera@xanum.uam.mx.

Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) (Bacillales:Bacillaceae) is a gram-positive 
bacterium that produces spores, several virulence factors and insecticidal 
toxins, making this microorganism the most used biopesticide worldwide. The use 
of inert supports such as polyurethane foam (PUF) in solid cultures has been a 
great alternative to produce various metabolites, including those produced by 
Bt. In this study we compared the yields, productivity and quality of the spores 
by two wild strains of Bt, (Y15 and EA3), grown in media with high substrate 
concentration in both culture systems: liquid and solid (PUF as solid inert 
support). Both strains showed 2.5- to 30-fold increases in spore production and 
productivity in solid culture, which showed an even greater increase when 
considering the spores retained in the PUF observed by scanning electron 
microscopy. Moreover, spore produced in solid culture showed up to sevenfold 
higher survival after a heat-shock treatment, relative to spores from liquid 
culture. The infectivity against larvae of Galleria mellonella 
(Lepidoptera:Pyralidae) improved also in spores from solid cultures. This 
comparison showed that the culture of Bt on solid support has clear advantages 
over liquid culture in terms of the production and quality of spores, and that 
those advantages can be attributed only to the culture system, as the same media 
composition was used in both systems.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-021-03122-2
PMID: 34398297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2021 Jun;28(6):3351-3361. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2021.02.082. 
Epub 2021 Mar 10.

Plasticity in life features, parasitism and super-parasitism behavior of Bracon 
hebetor, an important natural enemy of Galleria mellonella and other 
lepidopteran host species.

Abou El-Ela AS(1)(2), Dessoky ES(3), Masry S(4)(5), Arshad A(6), Munawar A(2), 
Qamer S(7), Abdelkhalek A(4), Behiry SI(8), Kordy A(1).

Author information:
(1)Plant Protection Department, Faculty of Agriculture (Saba Basha), Alexandria 
University, Alexandria 21531, Egypt.
(2)Institute of Insect Sciences, College of Agriculture and Biotechnology, 
Zhejiang University, 310000, China.
(3)Department of Biology, College of Science, Taif University, P.O. Box 11099, 
Taif 21944, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Plant Protection and Biomolecular Diagnosis Department, ALCRI, City of 
Scientific Research and Technological Applications, New Borg El Arab City, 
Alexandria 21934, Egypt.
(5)Research and Development Division, ADAFSA, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(6)Department of Entomology, University of Agriculture Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(7)Department of Zoology, Government College University, Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(8)Agricultural Botany Department, Faculty of Agriculture (Saba Basha), 
Alexandria University, Alexandria 21531, Egypt.

The wasp, Bracon hebetor Say, is an important potential biocontrol agent of a 
wide range of lepidopteran insect species. The current study was subjected to 
compare these ectoparasitoid fitness traits on different host species belonging 
to the order Lepidoptera. Moreover, we determine the population dynamic with 
different host densities, sex ratio patterns, super-parasitism, longevity, 
paralysis success, and reproductive potential under laboratory conditions. Our 
results revealed that oviposition increased with an increase in host density, 
while the adult emergence and egg hatching were decreased due to the 
super-parasitism on host larvae. A higher male and female-biased population were 
observed when virgin and mated females offered fresh hosts. Adults' longevity 
was recorded more in females than males when kept only with bee honey + royal 
jelly + host larvae. The mean duration of egg-adult development was recorded 
higher on Galleria mellonella and lowest on Busseola fusca. The parasitization 
rate, super-parasitism, and cumulative fecundity of mated and virgin female 
wasps with different host species were observed higher on specific host Galleria 
mellonella while it was lower on Phthorimaea operculella. Furthermore, the 
parasitoids having mating experience preferred fresh, while the parasitoids' 
lack of mating experiences preferred paralyzed host under olfactometer test. 
Besides, this research has produced novel facts on the biology of parasitic 
wasp, B. hebetor that may guide the advancement of sustainable biological 
control programs to control lepidopteran pests.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2021.02.082
PMCID: PMC8176007
PMID: 34121872

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest 
exists.


61. Environ Pollut. 2021 Jul 1;280:116877. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.116877. Epub 
2021 Mar 9.

Mastication of polyolefins alters the microbial composition in Galleria 
mellonella.

Peydaei A(1), Bagheri H(2), Gurevich L(3), de Jonge N(4), Nielsen JL(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Bu-Ali Sina University, 6517838695, Hamedan, 
Iran; Department of Chemistry and Bioscience, Aalborg University, Fredrik Bajers 
Vej 7H, DK-9220, Aalborg East, Denmark.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Bu-Ali Sina University, 6517838695, Hamedan, 
Iran. Electronic address: hbagheri@basu.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Materials and Production, Aalborg University, Skjernvej 4A, 
DK-9220, Aalborg East, Denmark.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Bioscience, Aalborg University, Fredrik Bajers 
Vej 7H, DK-9220, Aalborg East, Denmark.

Recent studies have indicated that Galleria mellonella larvae ingest 
polyethylene films and the degradation mechanism could inspire biotechnological 
exploitation for degrading plastic to eliminate global pollution from plastic 
waste. In this study, we tested the chemical compositions of masticated and 
ingested different plastic types by G. mellonella. High throughput sequencing of 
16S rRNA gene was used to characterize the alteration of the microbial 
communities derived from salivary glands, gut contents and whole G. mellonella 
larvae. Our results indicated that G. mellonella is able to masticate 
polyethylene (PE), expanded polystyrene (EPS) and polypropylene (PP) and convert 
it to small particles with very large and chemically modified surfaces. The 
characteristics of the polymer affect the rate of damage. Formation of 
functional carbonyl groups on the appearance of oxidized metabolic intermediates 
of polyolefins in the frass samples observed. We found that the mastication of 
EPS, PP or PE could significantly alter the microbial composition in the gut 
content while it did not appear to influence the salivary glands microbial 
community. Representatives of Desulfovibrio vulgaris and Enterobacter grew with 
the PE diet while mastication of polystyrene and polypropylene increased the 
abundance of Enterococcus. The evaluation of bacterial communities in whole 
larvae confirmed the obtained result and additionally showed that the abundance 
of Paenibacillus, Corynebacterium and Commamonadaceae increased by Styrofoam 
(EPS) consumption.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.116877
PMID: 33770522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Med Mycol. 2021 Jul 6;59(7):734-740. doi: 10.1093/mmy/myaa116.

Filamentous growth is a general feature of Candida auris clinical isolates.

Fan S(1), Yue H(2), Zheng Q(1), Bing J(1), Tian S(3), Chen J(3), Ennis CL(4)(5), 
Nobile CJ(5), Huang G(1), Du H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Huashan Hospital, State Key Laboratory of 
Genetic Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Institutes of Biomedical Sciences, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Mycology, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of China 
Medical University, Shenyang, China.
(4)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Merced, 
Merced, USA.
(5)Quantitative and Systems Biology Graduate Program, University of California, 
Merced, Merced, USA.

A striking feature of pathogenic Candida species is morphological plasticity 
that facilitates environmental adaptation and host infection. Candida auris is 
an emerging multidrug-resistant fungal pathogen first described in Japan in 
2009. In this study, we demonstrate that clinical isolates of C. auris have 
multiple colony and cellular morphologies including the yeast, filamentous, 
aggregated, and elongated forms. This phenotypic diversity has been observed in 
eight clinical isolates of C. auris representing four major genetic clades, 
suggesting that it could be a general characteristic. We further demonstrate 
that different cell types of C. auris exhibit distinct antifungal resistance and 
virulence properties in a Galleria mellonella infection model. Our findings 
imply that morphological diversity is an important biological feature of C. 
auris and could be a contributor to its emergence and rapid prevalence 
worldwide.
LAY SUMMARY: Candida auris is an emerging multidrug-resistant fungal pathogen. 
Morphological analyses indicate that filamentation is a general feature of 
clinical isolates of C. auris. This ability is associated with antifungal 
resistance and virulence.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
International Society for Human and Animal Mycology.

DOI: 10.1093/mmy/myaa116
PMCID: PMC8257410
PMID: 33485272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Parasit Vectors. 2021 Jan 13;14(1):45. doi: 10.1186/s13071-020-04548-7.

Morphological, molecular and ecological characterization of a native isolate of 
Steinernema feltiae (Rhabditida: Steinernematidae) from southern Chile.

Flores P(1), Alvarado A(1), Lankin G(1), Lax P(2), Prodan S(1), Aballay E(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Sanidad Vegetal, Facultad de Ciencias Agronómicas, 
Universidad de Chile, P.O. Box 1004, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Instituto de Diversidad y Ecología Animal (CONICET-UNC) y Centro de Zoología 
Aplicada, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas, Físicas y Naturales, Universidad 
Nacional de Córdoba, X5000AVP, Córdoba, Argentina.
(3)Departamento de Sanidad Vegetal, Facultad de Ciencias Agronómicas, 
Universidad de Chile, P.O. Box 1004, Santiago, Chile. eaballay@uchile.cl.

BACKGROUND: Steinernema feltiae is an entomopathogenic nematode used in 
biological control programs with a global distribution. Populations of this 
species show phenotypic plasticity derived from local adaptation and vary in 
different traits, such as location and host penetration. The aim of this work 
was to describe a Chilean isolate of this nematode species, using integrative 
approaches.
METHODS: Nematode morphological and morphometric studies were conducted along 
with molecular analysis of nuclear genes. The symbiotic bacterium was also 
identified by sequencing the 16S rRNA gene. Some ecological characteristics were 
described, including the temperature requirements for the nematode life cycle 
and the effect of soil water content for optimal reproduction.
RESULTS: Morphometric characterization revealed a large intra-specific 
variability. The isolate identity was also corroborated with the analysis of 
nuclear genes. Based on the 16S gene, its symbiont bacteria, Xenorhabdus 
bovienii, was identified. The lowest, optimal and highest temperatures found to 
limit the infestation and reproduction on Galleria mellonella were 10, 20 and 
30 °C, respectively; the emergence from the host larvae occurred approximately 
10 days after inoculation. Differences were observed in offspring, and 120 
infective juveniles (IJ)/larva was the most prolific dose at 20 °C. The soil 
water content did not affect the number of IJ invaders, penetration efficacy and 
IJ emergence time or offspring per larva, but it caused a delay in achieving 
full mortality at the permanent wilting point with respect to saturation and 
field capacity.
CONCLUSIONS: For the first time, a Chilean isolate of S. feltiae is described in 
detail considering morphological, molecular and ecological aspects. The isolate 
was shown to be efficient in soil containing water, with optimal temperatures 
ranging from 15 to 25 °C for host infestation and production of an abundant 
offspring; these characteristics would allow its potential use as control agents 
in a wide geographical area of the country.

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-020-04548-7
PMCID: PMC7805086
PMID: 33436058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


64. Virulence. 2021 Dec;12(1):150-164. doi: 10.1080/21505594.2020.1867421.

Genomic and phenotypic analyses of multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii 
NCCP 16007 isolated from a patient with a urinary tract infection.

Kim M(1), Park J(1), Park W(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Environmental Microbiology, Department of 
Environmental Science and Ecological Engineering, Korea University , Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.

Polymyxin B (PMB) is increasingly used as a last-line antibiotic; however, the 
emergence of PMB resistance is a serious threat to global health. Here, a total 
of 40 Acinetobacter baumannii clinical isolates were collected to screen for 
PMB-resistant strains. Several clinical isolates including NCCP 16007 were far 
more resistant to PMB (MIC: 128-256 μg/ml) than the ATCC 17978 strain (MIC: 2 
μg/ml) and appeared to possess resistance to broad-spectrum antibiotics 
including meropenem and 12 others. Four highly PMB-resistant strains possessed 
point mutations in the histidine kinase PmrB, leading to an increased expression 
of pmrC encoding a phosphoethanolamine transferase. Whole-genome analyses 
revealed that the NCCP 16007 stain had acquired two additional copies of the 
pmrC gene with phage integrase and 13 antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) from 
other pathogens, including Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The 
GC ratios of the ARGs (50-60%) were higher than that of the chromosomal backbone 
(39.06%), further supporting the horizontal gene transfer of ARGs. Comparative 
genomics with other multidrug-resistant A. baumannii strains revealed that the 
NCCP 16007 strain has many additional ARGs and has lost several virulence 
factors including Csu pili and heme oxygenase but exhibited high pathogenicity 
in Galleria mellonella-infection models. The observation of condensed biofilm 
through confocal and scanning electron microscopy suggested that the NCCP 16007 
strain may possess high adhesion capacity during urinary tract infection. 
Therefore, our genomic and phenotypic analyses suggested that the 
multidrug-resistant A. baumannii NCCP 16007 strain possesses high genome 
plasticity, natural transformation ability, and pathogenicity.

DOI: 10.1080/21505594.2020.1867421
PMCID: PMC7781626
PMID: 33372826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflicts of interest were reported 
by the authors.


65. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Dec 2;10:571147. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2020.571147. eCollection 2020.

Robust, Comprehensive Molecular, and Phenotypical Characterisation of Atypical 
Candida albicans Clinical Isolates From Bogotá, Colombia.

Rodríguez-Leguizamón G(1)(2), Ceballos-Garzón A(3), Suárez CF(2)(4), Patarroyo 
MA(2)(5), Parra-Giraldo CM(3).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario Mayor Méderi-Universidad del Rosario, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(2)School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universidad del Rosario, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(3)Unidad de Proteómica y Micosis Humanas, Grupo de Enfermedades Infecciosas, 
Departamento de Microbiología, Facultad de Ciencias, Pontificia Universidad 
Javeriana, Bogotá, Colombia.
(4)Biomathematics Department, Fundación Instituto de Inmunología de Colombia 
(FIDIC), Bogotá, Colombia.
(5)Molecular Biology and Immunology Department, Fundación Instituto de 
Inmunología de Colombia (FIDIC), Bogotá, Colombia.

Candida albicans is commensal in human microbiota and is known to be the 
commonest opportunistic pathogen, having variable clinical outcomes that can 
lead to up to 60% mortality. Such wide clinical behaviour can be attributed to 
its phenotypical plasticity and high genetic diversity. This study characterised 
10 Colombian clinical isolates which had already been identified as C. albicans 
by molecular tests; however, previous bioinformatics analysis of protein mass 
spectra and phenotypical characteristics has shown that this group of isolates 
has atypical behaviour, sharing characteristics of both C. africana and C. 
albicans. This study was aimed at evaluating atypical isolates' pathogenic 
capability in the Galleria mellonella model; susceptibility profiles were 
determined and MLST was used for molecular characterisation. Cluster analysis, 
enabling unbiased bootstrap to classify the isolates and establish their cluster 
membership and e-BURST, was used for establishing clonal complexes (CC). Both 
approaches involved using representative MLST data from the 18 traditional 
C. albicans clades, as well as C. albicans-associated and minor species. Ten 
atypical isolates were distributed as follows: 6/10 (B71, B41, B60, R6, R41, and 
R282) were grouped into a statistically well-supported atypical cluster (AC) and 
constituted a differentiated CC 6; 2/10 of the isolates were clearly grouped in 
clade 1 and were concurrent in CC 4 (B80, B44). Another 2/10 atypical isolates 
were grouped in clade 10 and concurred in CC 7 (R425, R111); most atypical 
isolates were related to geographically distant isolates and some represented 
new ST. Isolates B41 and R41 in the AC had greater virulence. Isolate B44 was 
fluconazole-resistant and was grouped in clade 1. The atypical nature of the 
isolates studied here was demonstrated by the contrast between phenotypical 
traits (C. africana-like), molecular markers (C. albicans-like), virulence, and 
antifungal resistance, highlighting the widely described genetic plasticity for 
this genus. Our results showed that the atypical isolates forming 
well-differentiated groups belonged to C. albicans. Our findings could 
contribute towards developing molecular epidemiology approaches for managing 
hospital-acquired infection.

Copyright © 2020 Rodríguez-Leguizamón, Ceballos-Garzón, Suárez, Patarroyo and 
Parra-Giraldo.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.571147
PMCID: PMC7738613
PMID: 33344263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


66. Can J Microbiol. 2021 Mar;67(3):249-258. doi: 10.1139/cjm-2020-0208. Epub 2020 
Dec 11.

In vitro degradation of low-density polyethylene by new bacteria from larvae of 
the greater wax moth, Galleria mellonella.

Montazer Z(1)(2), Habibi Najafi MB(2), Levin DB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosystems Engineering, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, 
Manitoba, Canada.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, 
Mashhad, Razavi Khorasan, Iran.

Three bacterial species isolated from whole body extracts of the greater wax 
moth larvae, Galleria mellonella, were evaluated for their ability to utilize 
low-density polyethylene (LDPE) as a sole carbon source in vitro. These bacteria 
were identified as Lysinibacillus fusiformis, Bacillus aryabhattai, and 
Microbacterium oxydans. Their ability to biodegrade LDPE was assessed by growth 
curves, cell biomass production, polyethylene (PE) weight loss, and the presence 
of LDPE hydrolysis products in the growth media. Consortia of these bacteria 
with three other bacteria previously shown to degrade LDPE (Cupriavidus necator 
H16, Pseudomonas putida LS46, and Pseudomonas putida IRN22) were also tested. 
Growth curves of the bacteria utilizing LDPE as a sole carbon source revealed a 
peak in cell density after 24 h. Cell densities declined by 48 h but slowly 
increased again to different extents, depending on the bacteria. Incubation of 
LDPE with bacteria isolated from greater wax moth larvae had significant effects 
on bacterial cell mass production and weight loss of LDPE in PE-containing 
media. The bacterial consortia were better able to degrade LDPE than were the 
individual species alone. Gas chromatographic analyses revealed the presence of 
linear alkanes and other unknown putative LDPE hydrolysis products in some of 
bacterial culture media.

DOI: 10.1139/cjm-2020-0208
PMID: 33306436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Environ Sci Technol. 2020 Nov 17;54(22):14706-14715. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.0c04386. Epub 2020 Oct 26.

A Very Hungry Caterpillar: Polyethylene Metabolism and Lipid Homeostasis in 
Larvae of the Greater Wax Moth (Galleria mellonella).

LeMoine CM(1), Grove HC(1), Smith CM(1), Cassone BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB R78 6A9, Canada.

Larvae of the greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella) possess the remarkable 
ability to consume and rapidly degrade low-density polyethylene. Previous 
studies have investigated the involvement of the animal's microbiome, but little 
is known about the host's actual role and if it benefits from biodegradation of 
this synthetic polymer. We used a combination of RNA sequencing and biochemical 
approaches to assess caterpillars fed honeycomb, fed polyethylene (PE), or 
starved for up to 72 h. Sequencing of gut transcripts revealed PE-fed larvae 
retain an expression profile consistent with normal intestinal function but also 
show distinct molecular signatures indicative of enhanced fatty acid metabolism 
(FAM). Further, quantification of total lipid content validated the impact of a 
PE diet on FAM; in contrast to lipid-depleted starved animals, PE-fed 
caterpillars maintain lipid reserves similar to honeycomb-fed larvae. 
Additionally, we found the activity of putative enzymes involved in lipid 
oxidation (e.g., alcohol dehydrogenase) are considerably higher in PE-fed 
larvae, indicating that on a functional level, these caterpillars are inducing 
pathways to effectively metabolize PE. Overall, we put forward a hypothesized 
model where the similarity in chemical structure between PE and its natural 
honeycomb diet has endowed larvae of G. mellonella with the extraordinary 
capability to derive energy from PE as an exclusive food source through 
pre-existing metabolic pathways.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.0c04386
PMID: 33103898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Zookeys. 2020 Sep 21;970:51-61. doi: 10.3897/zookeys.970.54960. eCollection 
2020.

A new species of Galleria Fabricius (Lepidoptera, Pyralidae) from Korea based on 
molecular and morphological characters.

Roh SJ(1), Park H(1), Kim SH(1), Kim SY(1), Choi YS(1), Song JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biology, National Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences, Wanju 55365, South Korea Department of Agricultural Biology, National 
Institute of Agricultural Sciences Wanju-gun South Korea.

The greater wax moth, Galleria mellonella Linnaeus, is well known as a pest of 
honey bees and for the biodegradation of wax and polyethylene by their larvae. 
The genus Galleria has long been considered monotypic and found worldwide. A 
taxonomic study of the genus Galleria is presented based on morphological and 
molecular characters (COI, CAD, wg). A new species (Galleria similis Roh & Song, 
sp. nov.) is recognized on the Korean peninsula. The new species is 
superficially similar to G. mellonella but they can be separated by the 
structures of hindwing venation and male genitalia. Habitus photographs and 
illustrations of diagnostic characters are provided.

Seung Jin Roh, Haechul Park, Seong-Hyun Kim, So-Yun Kim, Yong-Su Choi, Jeong-Hun 
Song.

DOI: 10.3897/zookeys.970.54960
PMCID: PMC7522106
PMID: 33024409


69. Pathog Dis. 2020 Nov 23;78(9):ftaa057. doi: 10.1093/femspd/ftaa057.

The greater wax moth Galleria mellonella: biology and use in immune studies.

Wojda I(1), Staniec B(2), Sułek M(1), Kordaczuk J(1).

Author information:
(1)Maria Curie Sklodowska University, Institute of Biological Sciences, 
Department of Immunobiology, Akademicka 19, 20-033 Lublin, Poland.
(2)Maria Curie Sklodowska University, Institute of Biological Sciences, 
Department of Zoology and Nature Protection, Akademicka 19, 20-033 Lublin, 
Poland.

The greater wax moth Galleria mellonella is an invertebrate that is increasingly 
being used in scientific research. Its ease of reproduction, numerous offspring, 
short development cycle, and finally, its known genome and immune-related 
transcriptome provide a convenient research model for investigation of insect 
immunity at biochemical and molecular levels. Galleria immunity, consisting of 
only innate mechanisms, shows adaptive plasticity, which has recently become the 
subject of intensive scientific research. This insect serves as a mini host in 
studies of the pathogenicity of microorganisms and in vivo tests of the 
effectiveness of single virulence factors as well as new antimicrobial 
compounds. Certainly, the Galleria mellonella species deserves our attention and 
appreciation for its contribution to the development of research on innate 
immune mechanisms. In this review article, we describe the biology of the 
greater wax moth, summarise the main advantages of using it as a model organism 
and present some of the main techniques facilitating work with this insect.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.

DOI: 10.1093/femspd/ftaa057
PMCID: PMC7683414
PMID: 32970818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. R Soc Open Sci. 2020 Aug 5;7(8):200282. doi: 10.1098/rsos.200282. eCollection 
2020 Aug.

Steinernema diaprepesi (Rhabditida: Steinernematidae) parasitizing Gonipterus 
platensis (Coleoptera: Curculionidae).

Damascena AP(1), de Carvalho VR(1), Ribeiro MF(1), Horta AB(1), Monteiro de 
Castro E Castro B(2), Zanuncio AJV(3), Wilcken CF(1), Zanuncio JC(2), Wilcken 
SRS(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Faculdade de Ciências Agronômicas, 
Departamento de Proteção Vegetal, Departamento de Proteção Vegetal, 18610-034, 
Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Entomologia/BIOAGRO, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa, 
Minas Gerais, 36570-900 Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Engenharia Florestal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa, 
Minas Gerais, 36570-900 Brazil.

Entomopathogenic nematodes (EPNs) can control pests due to mutualistic 
association with bacteria that reproduce and kill the host from septicemia, 
making the environment favourable for nematode development and reproduction. The 
objective of this study was to identify an EPN isolate collected in eucalyptus 
cultivation and to determine its pathogenicity with regard to Gonipterus 
platensis Marelli (Coleoptera: Curculionidae). Four steel-mesh traps with two 
seventh-instar Galleria mellonella larvae were buried 5 cm deep in the soil in a 
commercial Eucalyptus plantation. After 7 days, the traps were packed in plastic 
bags and transported to laboratory to isolate the EPNs using White traps. The 
obtained nematodes were multiplied in G. mellonella larvae and identified by 
sequencing their D2/D3 expansion of the 28S rDNA region by polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) and specific primers for ITS regions. Steinernema diaprepesi was 
identified and inoculated into G. platensis pupae at doses of 500, 1000 and 5000 
infective juveniles (IJs) to determine its pathogenicity to this pest. At 8 days 
after inoculation, the mortality rate of the G. platensis pupae was 80% with the 
lowest concentration and 100% with the others. The emergence of nematodes and 
the rapid degradation of G. platensis pupae were observed in those inoculated 
with IJs. The pathogenicity to the G. platensis pupae indicates potential for 
using this nematode in the integrated management of this insect.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rsos.200282
PMCID: PMC7481718
PMID: 32968508

Conflict of interest statement: We have no competing interests.


71. ISME J. 2020 Nov;14(11):2766-2782. doi: 10.1038/s41396-020-0729-9. Epub 2020 Sep 
2.

Transcriptome plasticity underlying plant root colonization and insect invasion 
by Pseudomonas protegens.

Vesga P(1), Flury P(1)(2)(3), Vacheron J(2), Keel C(4), Croll D(5), Maurhofer 
M(6).

Author information:
(1)Plant Pathology, Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Zürich, Zürich, 
Switzerland.
(2)Department of Fundamental Microbiology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(3)Department of Crop Sciences, Research Institute of Organic Agriculture FiBL, 
Frick, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Fundamental Microbiology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland. christoph.keel@unil.ch.
(5)Laboratory of Evolutionary Genetics, Institute of Biology, University of 
Neuchâtel, Neuchâtel, Switzerland. daniel.croll@unine.ch.
(6)Plant Pathology, Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Zürich, Zürich, 
Switzerland. monika.maurhofer@usys.ethz.ch.

Pseudomonas protegens shows a high degree of lifestyle plasticity since it can 
establish both plant-beneficial and insect-pathogenic interactions. While P. 
protegens protects plants against soilborne pathogens, it can also invade 
insects when orally ingested leading to the death of susceptible pest insects. 
The mechanism whereby pseudomonads effectively switch between lifestyles, 
plant-beneficial or insecticidal, and the specific factors enabling plant or 
insect colonization are poorly understood. We generated a large-scale 
transcriptomics dataset of the model P. protegens strain CHA0 which includes 
data from the colonization of wheat roots, the gut of Plutella xylostella after 
oral uptake and the Galleria mellonella hemolymph after injection. We identified 
extensive plasticity in transcriptomic profiles depending on the environment and 
specific factors associated to different hosts or different stages of insect 
infection. Specifically, motor-activity and Reb toxin-related genes were highly 
expressed on wheat roots but showed low expression within insects, while certain 
antimicrobial compounds (pyoluteorin), exoenzymes (a chitinase and a 
polyphosphate kinase), and a transposase exhibited insect-specific expression. 
We further identified two-partner secretion systems as novel factors 
contributing to pest insect invasion. Finally, we use genus-wide comparative 
genomics to retrace the evolutionary origins of cross-kingdom colonization.

DOI: 10.1038/s41396-020-0729-9
PMCID: PMC7784888
PMID: 32879461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


72. mSphere. 2020 Jul 29;5(4):e00404-20. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00404-20.

Acinetobacter baumannii NCIMB8209: a Rare Environmental Strain Displaying 
Extensive Insertion Sequence-Mediated Genome Remodeling Resulting in the Loss of 
Exposed Cell Structures and Defensive Mechanisms.

Repizo GD(1), Espariz M(2), Seravalle JL(2), Díaz Miloslavich JI(2), Steimbrüch 
BA(2), Shuman HA(3), Viale AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Biologia Molecular y Celular de Rosario (IBR, CONICET), 
Departamento de Microbiologia, Facultad de Ciencias Bioquimicas y Farmaceuticas, 
Universidad Nacional de Rosario, Rosario, Argentina repizo@ibr-conicet.gov.ar 
viale@ibr-conicet.gov.ar.
(2)Instituto de Biologia Molecular y Celular de Rosario (IBR, CONICET), 
Departamento de Microbiologia, Facultad de Ciencias Bioquimicas y Farmaceuticas, 
Universidad Nacional de Rosario, Rosario, Argentina.
(3)Department of Microbiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Acinetobacter baumannii represents nowadays an important nosocomial pathogen of 
poorly defined reservoirs outside the clinical setting. Here, we conducted 
whole-genome sequencing analysis of the Acinetobacter sp. NCIMB8209 collection 
strain, isolated in 1943 from the aerobic degradation (retting) of desert 
guayule shrubs. Strain NCIMB8209 contained a 3.75-Mb chromosome and a plasmid of 
134 kb. Phylogenetic analysis based on core genes indicated NCIMB8209 
affiliation to A. baumannii, a result supported by the identification of a 
chromosomal blaOXA-51-like gene. Seven genomic islands lacking antimicrobial 
resistance determinants, 5 regions encompassing phage-related genes, and 
notably, 93 insertion sequences (IS) were found in this genome. NCIMB8209 
harbors most genes linked to persistence and virulence described in contemporary 
A. baumannii clinical strains, but many of the genes encoding components of 
surface structures are interrupted by IS. Moreover, defense genetic islands 
against biological aggressors such as type 6 secretion systems or CRISPR-cas are 
absent from this genome. These findings correlate with a low capacity of 
NCIMB8209 to form biofilm and pellicle, low motility on semisolid medium, and 
low virulence toward Galleria mellonella and Caenorhabditis elegans Searching 
for catabolic genes and concomitant metabolic assays revealed the ability of 
NCIMB8209 to grow on a wide range of substances produced by plants, including 
aromatic acids and defense compounds against external aggressors. All the above 
features strongly suggest that NCIMB8209 has evolved specific adaptive features 
to a particular environmental niche. Moreover, they also revealed that the 
remarkable genetic plasticity identified in contemporary A. baumannii clinical 
strains represents an intrinsic characteristic of the 
species.IMPORTANCEAcinetobacter baumannii is an ESKAPE (Enterococcus faecium, 
Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter baumannii, 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterobacter species) opportunistic pathogen, with 
poorly defined natural habitats/reservoirs outside the clinical setting. A. 
baumannii arose from the Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-A. baumannii complex as the 
result of a population bottleneck, followed by a recent population expansion 
from a few clinically relevant clones endowed with an arsenal of resistance and 
virulence genes. Still, the identification of virulence traits and the 
evolutionary paths leading to a pathogenic lifestyle has remained elusive, and 
thus, the study of nonclinical ("environmental") A. baumannii isolates is 
necessary. We conducted here comparative genomic and virulence studies on A. 
baumannii NCMBI8209 isolated in 1943 from the microbiota responsible for the 
decomposition of guayule, and therefore well differentiated both temporally and 
epidemiologically from the multidrug-resistant strains that are predominant 
nowadays. Our work provides insights on the adaptive strategies used by A. 
baumannii to escape from host defenses and may help the adoption of measures 
aimed to limit its further dissemination.

Copyright © 2020 Repizo et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00404-20
PMCID: PMC7392541
PMID: 32727858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 3;11:998. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00998. eCollection 
2020.

An Invertebrate Burn Wound Model That Recapitulates the Hallmarks of Burn Trauma 
and Infection Seen in Mammalian Models.

Maslova E(1), Shi Y(2), Sjöberg F(3)(4), Azevedo HS(2), Wareham DW(5), McCarthy 
RR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biosciences, Centre for Inflammation Research and Translational 
Medicine, Department of Life Sciences, College of Health and Life Sciences, 
Brunel University London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)School of Engineering and Materials Science, Institute of Bioengineering, 
Queen Mary, University of London, London, United Kingdom.
(3)The Burn Centre, Department of Hand and Plastic Surgery, Linköping 
University, Linköping, Sweden.
(4)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(5)Antimicrobial Research Group, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary, University of 
London, London, United Kingdom.

The primary reason for skin graft failure and the mortality of burn wound 
patients, particularly those in burn intensive care centers, is bacterial 
infection. Several animal models exist to study burn wound pathogens. The most 
commonly used model is the mouse, which can be used to study virulence 
determinants and pathogenicity of a wide range of clinically relevant burn wound 
pathogens. However, animal models of burn wound pathogenicity are governed by 
strict ethical guidelines and hindered by high levels of animal suffering and 
the high level of training that is required to achieve consistent reproducible 
results. In this study, we describe for the first time an invertebrate model of 
burn trauma and concomitant wound infection. We demonstrate that this model 
recapitulates many of the hallmarks of burn trauma and wound infection seen in 
mammalian models and in human patients. We outline how this model can be used to 
discriminate between high and low pathogenicity strains of two of the most 
common burn wound colonizers Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus, 
and multi-drug resistant Acinetobacter baumannii. This model is less ethically 
challenging than traditional vertebrate burn wound models and has the capacity 
to enable experiments such as high throughput screening of both anti-infective 
compounds and genetic mutant libraries.

Copyright © 2020 Maslova, Shi, Sjöberg, Azevedo, Wareham and McCarthy.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00998
PMCID: PMC7283582
PMID: 32582051


74. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Sep 15;735:139521. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.139521. 
Epub 2020 May 19.

Technological application potential of polyethylene and polystyrene 
biodegradation by macro-organisms such as mealworms and wax moth larvae.

Billen P(1), Khalifa L(2), Van Gerven F(3), Tavernier S(3), Spatari S(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Antwerp, Faculty of Applied Engineering, iPRACS, 
Groenenborgerlaan 171, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium. Electronic address: 
pieter.billen@uantwerpen.be.
(2)Technion, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Haifa 32000, Israel.
(3)University of Antwerp, Faculty of Applied Engineering, iPRACS, 
Groenenborgerlaan 171, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium.

Multiple recent reports showed accelerated biodegradation of polyethylene by 
employing macro-organisms such as mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) and larvae of the 
greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella), which seemingly chew and digest the 
plastic. Nevertheless, doubts regarding analytical data were published, and 
results are not universally transferrable. This paper aims at gaining 
mechanistic insights and exploring the technological prospects of potential 
future optimized biodegradation. We used a variety of experimental setups with 
both species, using both live specimens and homogenated paste, to cover a broad 
spectrum of potential technological setups, and performed gravimetric, 
microscopic and spectroscopic analyses. Live larvae showed a preference for 
specific substrates, yet we argue by comparison to other food sources, evidenced 
also by energetic uptake, that a diet of LDPE is insufficient for growth. We did 
not detect mass loss when homogenate paste is brought in contact with LDPE 
films, nor significant traces of ethylene glycol. We demonstrated that the 
morphology of the substrate changes after contact with live larvae, indicating 
some plasticizing action by an excreted liquid. This indicates a mechanism of 
degradation involving more than the gut microbiome alone. Using streamlined life 
cycle assessment and techno-economic analysis (LCA/TEA) methods, we showed that 
the application of these findings as either a remediation or management 
technology for waste plastics is highly unlikely, given the conversion to 
microplastics, the absence of valuable products, and the high energy cost. 
However, the conversion mechanism should be further elucidated for 
bio-functionalization of liquid alkanes as high-value application, or to 
mitigate plastic anomalies in composting/digesting food waste.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.139521
PMID: 32470676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


75. Comp Biochem Physiol Part D Genomics Proteomics. 2020 Jun;34:100678. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbd.2020.100678. Epub 2020 Feb 24.

Impact of polyethylene on salivary glands proteome in Galleria melonella.

Peydaei A(1), Bagheri H(2), Gurevich L(3), de Jonge N(4), Nielsen JL(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Bu-Ali Sina University, 6517838695 Hamedan, 
Iran; Department of Chemistry and Bioscience, Aalborg University, Fredrik Bajers 
vej 7H, DK-9220 Aalborg East, Denmark.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Bu-Ali Sina University, 6517838695 Hamedan, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Materials and Production, Aalborg University, Skjernvej 4A, 
DK-9220 Aalborg East, Denmark.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Bioscience, Aalborg University, Fredrik Bajers 
vej 7H, DK-9220 Aalborg East, Denmark.
(5)Department of Chemistry and Bioscience, Aalborg University, Fredrik Bajers 
vej 7H, DK-9220 Aalborg East, Denmark. Electronic address: jln@bio.aau.dk.

Polyethylene pollutions are considered inert in nature and adversely affect the 
entire ecosystem. Larvae of greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella) have the 
ability to masticate and potentially biodegrade polyethylene films at elevated 
rates. The wax moth has been thought to metabolize PE independently of gut 
flora, however the role of the microbiome is poorly understood and degradation 
by the wax moth might be involved. To determine whether the salivary glands of 
the wax moth were potentially involved in the PE degradation, it was 
investigated how surface changes of polyethylene were affected by mastication 
and consumption. Formation of pitting and degradation intermediates including 
carbonyl groups, indicated that salivary glands could assist in polyethylene 
degradation. We investigated the biochemical effect of exposure by PE on the 
composition of the salivary gland proteome. The expression of salivary proteins 
was found to be affected by PE exposure. The proteins that were significantly 
affected by the exposure to PE revealed that the wax moth are undergoing general 
changes in energy levels, also enzymatic pathways associated to fatty acid beta 
oxidation during consumption to PE were induced.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbd.2020.100678
PMID: 32163748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


76. Proc Biol Sci. 2020 Mar 11;287(1922):20200112. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2020.0112. Epub 
2020 Mar 4.

Role of the intestinal microbiome in low-density polyethylene degradation by 
caterpillar larvae of the greater wax moth, Galleria mellonella.

Cassone BJ(1), Grove HC(1), Elebute O(1), Villanueva SMP(1), LeMoine CMR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB, Canada R78 6A9.

Recently, a few insects, including the caterpillar larva of the greater wax moth 
Galleria mellonella, have been identified as avid 'plastivores'. These 
caterpillars are able to ingest and metabolize polyethylene at unprecedented 
rates. While it appears that G. mellonella plays an important role in the 
biodegradation process, the contribution of its intestinal microbiome remains 
poorly understood and contested. In a series of experiments, we present strong 
evidence of an intricate relationship between an intact microbiome, low-density 
polyethylene (LDPE) biodegradation and the production of glycol as a metabolic 
by-product. First, we biochemically confirmed that G. mellonella larvae consume 
and metabolize LDPE, as individual caterpillars fed on polyethylene excreted 
glycol, but those excretions were reduced by antibiotic treatment. Further, 
while the gut bacterial communities remained relatively stable regardless of 
diet, we showed that during the early phases of feeding on LDPE (24-72 h), 
caterpillars exhibited increased microbial abundance relative to those starved 
or fed on their natural honeycomb diet. Finally, by isolating and growing gut 
bacteria with polyethylene as their exclusive carbon source for over 1 year, we 
identified microorganisms in the genus Acinetobacter that appeared to be 
involved in this biodegradation process. Taken collectively, our study indicates 
that during short-term exposure, the intestinal microbiome of G. mellonella is 
intricately associated with polyethylene biodegradation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2020.0112
PMCID: PMC7126078
PMID: 32126962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare we have no competing interests


77. J Invertebr Pathol. 2020 Mar;171:107332. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2020.107332. Epub 
2020 Feb 3.

Evaluation of different sponge types on the survival and infectivity of stored 
entomopathogenic nematodes.

Touray M(1), Gulcu B(2), Ulug D(1), Gulsen SH(1), Cimen H(1), Kaya HK(3), Cakmak 
I(4), Hazir S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Arts and Science, Aydin Adnan Menderes 
University, Turkey.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Arts and Science, Duzce University, Turkey.
(3)Department of Entomology and Nematology, University of California, One 
Shields Ave., Davis, CA, United States.
(4)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, Aydin Adnan Menderes 
University, Turkey.
(5)Department of Biology, Faculty of Arts and Science, Aydin Adnan Menderes 
University, Turkey. Electronic address: selcuk.hazir@gmail.com.

Sponges are one of the cheapest and most suitable substrates used to formulate 
and/or store the infective juveniles (IJs) of entomopathogenic nematodes (EPNs). 
Our study investigated the survival and infectivity of the IJs on five different 
sponges compared to that in an aqueous suspension (control). The sponges were 
Oasis® floral, Nanosponge, ScotchbriteTM, or Lysol® and natural sea sponge. EPN 
species tested were Heterorhabditis bacteriophora, Steinernema carpocapsae and 
S. feltiae. The recovery efficiency of the IJs from sponges was initially 
assessed. Subsequently, IJs were stored in the sponges and placed in plastic 
bags or Falcon tubes and incubated at 10° or 27 °C for 8 months or 11 weeks, 
respectively. IJ survival and infectivity were monitored monthly for the 10 °C 
and weekly for 27 °C in these sponge types. The IJs were recovered from the 
sponges, and their survival was based on observing their movement under a 
dissecting microscope, and infectivity was based on larval mortality in Galleria 
mellonella. Recovery efficiency of IJs was best for the Oasis floral sponge for 
all nematode species ranging between 83 and 91%. The survival and infectivity of 
stored IJs in all sponge types and control for both 10° and 27 °C gradually 
decreased over time. IJs stored in Scotchbrite, Lysol, and Nanosponge had the 
best survival and infectivity, whereas Oasis floral and natural sea sponges 
showed the poorest results. After 8 months at 10 °C in plastic bags, the 
survival ratio of all IJs in these three sponges (Scotchbrite, Lysol, and 
Nanosponge) was approximately 55%. IJs in Scotchbrite and Nanosponge were also 
able to survive and retain their infectivity at 27 °C for 3 months. IJs stored 
in Falcon tubes had survival that ranged from 26 to 53% at 27 °C and 55 to 77% 
at 10 °C. H. bacteriophora IJs lost their infectivity when stored at 27 °C after 
10 weeks. However, S. carpocapsae and S. feltiae exhibited 85% infectivity when 
stored in Scotchbrite and 50% in Nanosponge, respectively. Overall, sponges made 
from polyurethane (Scotchbrite) followed by melamine (Nanosponge) and cellulose 
(Lysol) are recommended for long-term nematode storage and transportation of 
nematode samples. However, Oasis floral sponge may be preferred for short-term 
IJ formulation for field applications because of easier recovery of IJs.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2020.107332
PMID: 32027881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


78. Environ Sci Technol. 2020 Mar 3;54(5):2821-2831. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.9b07044. 
Epub 2020 Feb 11.

Biodegradation of Polyethylene and Polystyrene by Greater Wax Moth Larvae 
(Galleria mellonella L.) and the Effect of Co-diet Supplementation on the Core 
Gut Microbiome.

Lou Y(1), Ekaterina P(1), Yang SS(1), Lu B(1), Liu B(1), Ren N(1), Corvini 
PF(2), Xing D(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, P. R. China.
(2)Institute for Ecopreneurship, School of Life Sciences, University of Applied 
Sciences and Arts Northwestern Switzerland, Gründenstrasse 40, Muttenz CH-4132, 
Switzerland.

Plastics waste and microplastics including polyethylene (PE) and polystyrene 
(PS) have been an environmental concern for years. Recent research has revealed 
that larvae of Galleria mellonella are capable of biodegrading low density PE 
film. In this study, we tested the feasibility of enhancing larval survival and 
the effect of supplementing the co-diet on plastic degradation by feeding the 
larvae beeswax or wheat bran as a co-diet. Significant mass loss of plastic was 
observed over a 21-day period, i.e., with respective consumption of 0.88 and 
1.95 g by 150 larvae fed only either PS or PE. The formation of C═O and C-O 
containing functional groups and long chain fatty acids as the metabolic 
intermediates of plastics in the residual polymers indicated depolymerization 
and biodegradation. Supplementing beeswax and bran increased the survival rates 
but decreased the consumption of plastic. The changes in the gut microbiome 
revealed that Bacillus and Serratia were significantly associated with the PS 
and PE diets. Beeswax and bran showed different shaping effects on the core gut 
microbiome of larvae fed the PE and PS. These results suggest that supplementing 
the co-diet affected the physiological properties of the larvae and plastic 
biodegradation and shaped the core gut microbiome.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.9b07044
PMID: 32013402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Feb 20;704:135931. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135931. 
Epub 2019 Dec 5.

Biodegradation of polyethylene microplastic particles by the fungus Aspergillus 
flavus from the guts of wax moth Galleria mellonella.

Zhang J(1), Gao D(2), Li Q(3), Zhao Y(4), Li L(4), Lin H(4), Bi Q(5), Zhao Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Resources Science of Traditional Chinese Medicines and State 
Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, School of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, 
China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, PR China; School of Pharmacy, 
China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, PR China.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical University, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, PR China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, PR 
China.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, China Pharmaceutical University, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, PR China.
(5)Department of TCMs Pharmaceuticals, School of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, 
China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 211198, PR China. Electronic address: 
biqirui@cpu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Resources Science of Traditional Chinese Medicines and State 
Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, School of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, 
China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, PR China. Electronic address: 
zhaoyucheng1986@126.com.

Polyethylene (PE) products are widely used in daily life, agriculture, and 
industry because of their convenience and economic value. However, PE is one of 
the polymer materials remarkably resistant to degradation. Current methods of 
plastic waste disposal pose a threat to the environment and produce microplastic 
particles (MPP), which becomes a global environmental concern because of its 
accumulation. In this study, a PE-degrading fungus Aspergillus flavus named 
PEDX3, was isolated from the gut contents of wax moth Galleria mellonella. The 
results indicated that high-density polyethylene (HDPE) MPP was degraded into 
the MPP with a lower molecular weight by strain PEDX3 after 28 days incubation. 
In addition, Fourier Transform - Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR) results showed 
the appearance of carbonyl groups and ether groups of MPP, which also validated 
the degradation of PE. Furthermore, the potential degradation enzymes were 
investigated by Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). 
Finally, two laccase-like multicopper oxidases (LMCOs) genes, AFLA_006190 and 
AFLA_053930, displayed up-regulated expression during the degradation process, 
which may be the candidate PE-degrading enzymes. These results have demonstrated 
that the A. flavus strain PEDX3 has an ability to degrade microplastic particles 
and the two PE-degrading enzymes provide a promising application for the PE MPP 
remediation.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135931
PMID: 31830656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Biofouling. 2019 Oct;35(9):997-1006. doi: 10.1080/08927014.2019.1686485. Epub 
2019 Nov 11.

Effects of surface pre-reacted glass-ionomer (S-PRG) eluate on Candida spp.: 
antifungal activity, anti-biofilm properties, and protective effects on Galleria 
mellonella against C. albicans infection.

Rossoni RD(1), de Barros PP(1), Lopes LADC(1), Ribeiro FC(1), Nakatsuka T(2), 
Kasaba H(2), Junqueira JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences and Oral Diagnosis, Institute of Science and 
Technology, UNESP - Univ Estadual Paulista, Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil.
(2)Department of Research, SHOFU Inc., Kyoto, Japan.

Surface pre-reacted glass-ionomer (S-PRG) is a bioactive filler produced by PRG 
technology, which is applied to various dental materials. The inhibitory effects 
of S-PRG eluate against Candida, the most common fungal oral pathogen, were 
investigated. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) and anti-biofilm 
activities were tested against Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Candida 
krusei, and Candida tropicalis. For the in vivo study, Galleria mellonella was 
used as a model to evaluate the effects of S-PRG on toxicity, hemocyte counts 
and candidiasis. The MIC of S-PRG ranged from 5 to 40% (v/v). S-PRG eluate 
exhibited anti-biofilm activity for all the Candida species tested. Furthermore, 
injection of S-PRG eluate into G. mellonella was not toxic to the larvae and 
protected G. mellonella against experimental candidiasis. In addition, S-PRG 
eluate inhibited biofilm formation by C. albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, and 
C. tropicalis and exerted protective effects on G. mellonella against 
experimental candidiasis in vivo.

DOI: 10.1080/08927014.2019.1686485
PMID: 31710252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2019 Oct 16;85(21):e01370-19. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01370-19. 
Print 2019 Nov 1.

Exploring Listeria monocytogenes Transcriptomes in Correlation with Divergence 
of Lineages and Virulence as Measured in Galleria mellonella.

Lee BH(1)(2), Garmyn D(3), Gal L(3), Guérin C(4), Guillier L(5), Rico A(6), 
Rotter B(2), Nicolas P(#)(7), Piveteau P(#)(8).

Author information:
(1)École Doctorale des Sciences de la Vie, Université Clermont Auvergne, Santé, 
Agronomie, Environnement, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(2)GenXPro GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(3)Agroécologie, AgroSup Dijon, Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique 
(INRA), Université Bourgogne Franche-Comté, Dijon, France.
(4)Mathématiques et Informatique Appliquées du Génome à l'Environnement, INRA, 
Université Paris-Saclay, Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(5)French Agency for Food, Environmental and Occupational Health & Safety 
(Anses), Laboratory for Food Safety, Maisons-Alfort, France.
(6)Thermo Fisher Scientific, Villebon-sur-Yvette, France.
(7)Mathématiques et Informatique Appliquées du Génome à l'Environnement, INRA, 
Université Paris-Saclay, Jouy-en-Josas, France pierre.nicolas@inra.fr 
piveteau@u-bourgogne.fr.
(8)Agroécologie, AgroSup Dijon, Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique 
(INRA), Université Bourgogne Franche-Comté, Dijon, France pierre.nicolas@inra.fr 
piveteau@u-bourgogne.fr.
(#)Contributed equally

As for many opportunistic pathogens, the virulence potential of Listeria 
monocytogenes is highly heterogeneous between isolates and correlated, to some 
extent, with phylogeny and gene repertoires. In sharp contrast with copious data 
on intraspecies genome diversity, little is known about transcriptome diversity 
despite the role of complex genetic regulation in pathogenicity. The current 
study implemented RNA sequencing to characterize the transcriptome profiles of 
33 isolates under optimal in vitro growth conditions. Transcript levels of 
conserved single-copy genes were comprehensively explored from several 
perspectives, including phylogeny, in silico-predicted virulence category based 
on epidemiological multilocus sequence typing (MLST) data, and in vivo virulence 
phenotype assessed in Galleria mellonella Comparing baseline transcriptomes 
between isolates was intrinsically more complex than standard genome comparison 
because of the inherent plasticity of gene expression in response to 
environmental conditions. We show that the relevance of correlation analyses and 
their statistical power can be enhanced by using principal-component analysis to 
remove the first level of irrelevant, highly coordinated changes linked to 
growth phase. Our results highlight the major contribution of transcription 
factors with key roles in virulence to the diversity of transcriptomes. 
Divergence in the basal transcript levels of a substantial fraction of the 
transcriptome was observed between lineages I and II, echoing previously 
reported epidemiological differences. Correlation analysis with in vivo 
virulence identified numerous sugar metabolism-related genes, suggesting that 
specific pathways might play roles in the onset of infection in G. 
mellonellaIMPORTANCEListeria monocytogenes is a multifaceted bacterium able to 
proliferate in a wide range of environments from soil to mammalian host cells. 
The accumulated genomic data underscore the contribution of intraspecies 
variations in gene repertoire to differential adaptation strategies between 
strains, including infection and stress resistance. It seems very likely that 
the fine-tuning of the transcriptional regulatory network is also a key 
component of the phenotypic diversity, albeit more difficult to investigate than 
genome content. Some studies reported incongruity in the basal transcriptome 
between isolates, suggesting a putative relationship with phenotypes, but small 
isolate numbers hampered proper correlation analyses with respect to their 
characteristics. The present study is the embodiment of the promising approach 
that consists of analyzing correlations between transcriptomes and various 
isolate characteristics. Statistically significant correlations were found with 
phylogenetic groups, epidemiological evidence of virulence potential, and 
virulence in Galleria mellonella larvae used as an in vivo model.

Copyright © 2019 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01370-19
PMCID: PMC6803300
PMID: 31471303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Environ Technol. 2021 Feb;42(5):717-730. doi: 10.1080/09593330.2019.1643925. 
Epub 2019 Aug 20.

Role of pretreatment and evidence for the enhanced biodegradation and 
mineralization of low-density polyethylene films by greater waxworm.

Kundungal H(1), Gangarapu M(1), Sarangapani S(1), Patchaiyappan A(1), Devipriya 
SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Environmental Sciences, Pondicherry University, 
Puducherry, India.

The present study reports the role of pretreatment for the enhanced 
biodegradation of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) with Galleria mellonella 
(Greater waxworm). The pretreatment of the LDPE film was carried out under solar 
radiation. The pretreated LDPE (PTLDPE) and untreated LDPE (UTLDPE) were 
characterized with AFM, FTIR and 1H NMR techniques. The qualitative analysis for 
the biodegradation of pretreated and untreated LDPE was examined by analysing 
the Excreta residue (ER) of Galleria mellonella fed with LDPE. The 
mineralization of the ER of waxworm fed on Waxcomb (WC), UTLDPE and PTLDPE were 
studied by analysing the changes in physiochemical properties through FTIR, 1H 
NMR and GC-MS techniques in addition to weight loss percentage of PTLDPE and 
survival rates of the tested greater waxworms. Solar pretreatment of LDPE led to 
increased surface roughness which favoured the waxworms to feed voraciously on 
PTLDPE. The post degradation studies of Waxcomb (WC), PTLDPE and UTLDPE showed 
92.03 ± 2.1%, 18.57 ± 1.8% and 55.8 ± 1.2% weight loss, respectively. The FTIR, 
1H NMR and GC-MS results confirm that the ER of waxworm fed on WC, UTLDPE and 
PTLDPE showed the presence of new carbonyl and alcoholic groups with increase in 
unsaturated hydrocarbon indicating enhanced mineralization of LDPE. The 
efficient mineralization of PTLDPE by waxworm was observed without affecting its 
survivability. A plausible mechanism of LDPE degradation has also been proposed. 
The rapid and cost effective biodegradation of PTLDPE through waxworm paves a 
new and facile route for hazardous plastic waste treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/09593330.2019.1643925
PMID: 31322049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2019 May 31;16(11):1941. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph16111941.

Biodegradation of Polyethylene by Enterobacter sp. D1 from the Guts of Wax Moth 
Galleria mellonella.

Ren L(1)(2), Men L(3), Zhang Z(4), Guan F(5), Tian J(6), Wang B(7), Wang J(8), 
Zhang Y(9), Zhang W(10).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Normal University, No. 1 Shida 
Road., Limin Economic Development Zone, Harbin 150025, China. rllr1@outlook.com.
(2)Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
No. 12 Zhongguancun South Street., Beijing 100081, China. rllr1@outlook.com.
(3)College of Forestry, Shanxi Agricultural University, Taigu 030801, China. 
linamen81@163.com.
(4)College of Forestry, Shanxi Agricultural University, Taigu 030801, China. 
zhiweizhang2012@163.com.
(5)Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
No. 12 Zhongguancun South Street., Beijing 100081, China. guanfeifei@caas.cn.
(6)Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
No. 12 Zhongguancun South Street., Beijing 100081, China. tianjian@caas.cn.
(7)Institute of Soil Fertilizer and Agricultural Water Saving, Xinjiang Academy 
of Agricultural Sciences, Urumqi 830091, China. wbx_wm@126.com.
(8)College of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Normal University, No. 1 Shida 
Road., Limin Economic Development Zone, Harbin 150025, China. 
wangjihua333@hotmail.com.
(9)Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
No. 12 Zhongguancun South Street., Beijing 100081, China. zhangyuhong@caas.cn.
(10)Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
No. 12 Zhongguancun South Street., Beijing 100081, China. zhangwei02@caas.cn.

Plastic polymers are widely used in agriculture, industry, and our daily life 
because of their convenient and economic properties. However, pollution caused 
by plastic polymers, especially polyethylene (PE), affects both animal and human 
health when they aggregate in the environment, as they are not easily degraded 
under natural conditions. In this study, Enterobacter sp. D1 was isolated from 
the guts of wax moth (Galleria mellonella). Microbial colonies formed around a 
PE film after 14 days of cultivation with D1. Roughness, depressions, and cracks 
were detected on the surface of the PE film by scanning electron microscopy 
(SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy 
(FTIR) showed the presence of carbonyl functional groups and ether groups on the 
PE film that was treated with D1. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry 
(LC-MS) also revealed that the contents of certain alcohols, esters, and acids 
were increased as a result of the D1 treatment, indicating that oxidation 
reaction occurred on the surface of the PE film treated with D1 bacteria. These 
observations confirmed that D1 bacteria has an ability to degrade PE.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16111941
PMCID: PMC6604253
PMID: 31159351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


84. Cell Rep. 2019 Feb 26;26(9):2451-2464.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2019.02.018.

The Galleria mellonella Hologenome Supports Microbiota-Independent Metabolism of 
Long-Chain Hydrocarbon Beeswax.

Kong HG(1), Kim HH(2), Chung JH(1), Jun J(2), Lee S(1), Kim HM(3), Jeon S(3), 
Park SG(3), Bhak J(4), Ryu CM(5).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Phytobacteriology Laboratory, Infection Disease Research Center, 
KRIBB, Daejeon 34141, South Korea.
(2)The Clinomics Institute, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology, 
Ulsan 44919, South Korea.
(3)Biomedical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology, 
Ulsan 44919, South Korea.
(4)Biomedical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology, 
Ulsan 44919, South Korea; The Clinomics Institute, Ulsan National Institute of 
Science and Technology, Ulsan 44919, South Korea.
(5)Molecular Phytobacteriology Laboratory, Infection Disease Research Center, 
KRIBB, Daejeon 34141, South Korea. Electronic address: cmryu@kribb.re.kr.

The greater wax moth, Galleria mellonella, degrades wax and plastic molecules. 
Despite much interest, the genetic basis of these hallmark traits remains poorly 
understood. Herein, we assembled high-quality genome and transcriptome data from 
G. mellonella to investigate long-chain hydrocarbon wax metabolism strategies. 
Specific carboxylesterase and lipase and fatty-acid-metabolism-related enzymes 
in the G. mellonella genome are transcriptionally regulated during feeding on 
beeswax. Strikingly, G. mellonella lacking intestinal microbiota successfully 
decomposes long-chain fatty acids following wax metabolism, although the 
intestinal microbiome performs a supplementary role in short-chain fatty acid 
degradation. Notably, final wax derivatives were detected by gas chromatography 
even in the absence of gut microbiota. Our findings provide insight into wax 
moth adaptation and may assist in the development of unique wax-degradation 
strategies with a similar metabolic approach for a plastic molecule polyethylene 
biodegradation using organisms without intestinal microbiota.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2019.02.018
PMID: 30811993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Evol Biol. 2018 Oct;31(10):1485-1497. doi: 10.1111/jeb.13345. Epub 2018 Jul 
25.

Independent and interactive effects of immune activation and larval diet on 
adult immune function, growth and development in the greater wax moth (Galleria 
mellonella).

Kangassalo K(1), Valtonen TM(1), Sorvari J(2), Kecko S(3), Pölkki M(1), Krams 
I(3)(4)(5), Krama T(3)(6), Rantala MJ(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Section of Ecology, Department of Biology, University of Turku, Turku, 
Finland.
(2)Department of Environmental and Biological Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, University of Daugavpils, Daugavpils, Latvia.
(4)Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia.
(5)Department of Zoology and Animal Ecology, Faculty of Biology, University of 
Latvia, Rīga, Latvia.
(6)Department of Plant Protection, Institute of Agricultural and Environmental 
Sciences, Estonian University of Life Science, Tartu, Estonia.
(7)Turku Brain and Mind Center, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.

Organisms in the wild are likely to face multiple immune challenges as well as 
additional ecological stressors, yet their interactive effects on immune 
function are poorly understood. Insects are found to respond to cues of 
increased infection risk by enhancing their immune capacity. However, such 
adaptive plasticity in immune function may be limited by physiological and 
environmental constraints. Here, we investigated the effects of two 
environmental stressors - poor larval diet and an artificial parasite-like 
immune challenge at the pupal stage - on adult immune function, growth and 
development in the greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella). Males whose immune 
system was activated with an artificial parasite-like immune challenge had 
weaker immune response - measured as strength of encapsulation response - as 
adults compared to the control groups, but only when reared on high-nutrition 
larval diet. Immune activation did not negatively affect adult immune response 
in males reared on low-nutrition larval diet, indicating that poor larval diet 
improved the capacity of the insects to respond to repeated immune challenges. 
Low-nutrition larval diet also had a positive independent effect on immune 
capacity in females, yet it negatively affected development time and adult body 
mass in both sexes. As in the nature immune challenges are rarely isolated, and 
adverse nutritional environment may indicate an elevated risk of infection, 
resilience to repeated immune challenges as a response to poor nutritional 
conditions could provide a significant fitness advantage. This study highlights 
the importance of considering environmental context when investigating the 
effects of immune activation in insects.

© 2018 European Society For Evolutionary Biology. Journal of Evolutionary 
Biology © 2018 European Society For Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.13345
PMID: 29957883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Infect Immun. 2018 Aug 22;86(9):e00442-18. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00442-18. Print 2018 
Sep.

A Light-Regulated Type I Pilus Contributes to Acinetobacter baumannii Biofilm, 
Motility, and Virulence Functions.

Wood CR(1), Ohneck EJ(1), Edelmann RE(2), Actis LA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, USA.
(2)Center for Advanced Microscopy and Imaging, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, 
USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, USA 
actisla@MiamiOH.edu.

Transcriptional analyses of Acinetobacter baumannii ATCC 17978 showed that the 
expression of A1S_2091 was enhanced in cells cultured in darkness at 24°C 
through a process that depended on the BlsA photoreceptor. Disruption of 
A1S_2091, a component of the A1S_2088-A1S_2091 polycistronic operon predicted to 
code for a type I chaperone/usher pilus assembly system, abolished surface 
motility and pellicle formation but significantly enhanced biofilm formation on 
plastic by bacteria cultured in darkness. Based on these observations, the 
A1S_2088-A1S_2091 operon was named the photoregulated pilus ABCD (prpABCD) 
operon, with A1S_2091 coding for the PrpA pilin subunit. Unexpectedly, 
comparative analyses of ATCC 17978 and prpA isogenic mutant cells cultured at 
37°C showed the expression of light-regulated biofilm biogenesis and motility 
functions under a temperature condition that drastically affects BlsA production 
and its light-sensing activity. These assays also suggest that ATCC 17978 cells 
produce alternative light-regulated adhesins and/or pilus systems that enhance 
bacterial adhesion and biofilm formation at both 24°C and 37°C on plastic as 
well as on the surface of polarized A549 alveolar epithelial cells, where the 
formation of bacterial filaments and cell chains was significantly enhanced. The 
inactivation of prpA also resulted in a significant reduction in virulence when 
tested by using the Galleria mellonella virulence model. All these observations 
provide strong evidence showing the capacity of A. baumannii to sense light and 
interact with biotic and abiotic surfaces using undetermined alternative sensing 
and regulatory systems as well as alternative adherence and motility cellular 
functions that allow this pathogen to persist in different ecological niches.

Copyright © 2018 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00442-18
PMCID: PMC6105899
PMID: 29891547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2017 Dec 21;62(1):e01514-17. doi: 
10.1128/AAC.01514-17. Print 2018 Jan.

Effect of Incubation Temperature on Antibiotic Resistance and Virulence Factors 
of Acinetobacter baumannii ATCC 17978.

De Silva PM(#)(1), Chong P(#)(2), Fernando DM(1), Westmacott G(2), Kumar 
A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.
(2)National Microbiology Laboratory, Public Health Agency of Canada, Winnipeg, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada 
ayush.kumar@umanitoba.ca.
(4)Manitoba Chemosensory Biology Group, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, 
Canada.
(#)Contributed equally

Acinetobacter baumannii is a notorious opportunistic pathogen that is prevalent 
mainly in hospital settings. The ability of A. baumannii to adapt and to survive 
in a range of environments has been a key factor for its persistence and success 
as an opportunistic pathogen. In this study, we investigated the effect of 
temperature on the clinically relevant phenotypes displayed by A. baumannii at 
37°C and 28°C. Surface-associated motility was significantly reduced at 28°C, 
while biofilm formation on plastic surfaces was increased at 28°C. Decreased 
susceptibility to aztreonam and increased susceptibility to 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole were observed at 28°C. No differences in 
virulence, as assayed in a Galleria mellonella model, were observed. Proteomic 
analysis showed differential expression of 629 proteins, of which 366 were 
upregulated and 263 were downregulated at 28°C. Upregulation of the Csu and iron 
uptake proteins at 28°C was a key finding for understanding some of the 
phenotypes displayed by A. baumannii at 28°C.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01514-17
PMCID: PMC5740336
PMID: 29061747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Evol Biol. 2017 Oct;30(10):1910-1918. doi: 10.1111/jeb.13150. Epub 2017 Aug 
21.

Sex-specific compensatory growth in the larvae of the greater wax moth Galleria 
mellonella.

Kecko S(1), Mihailova A(1), Kangassalo K(2), Elferts D(3), Krama T(1)(4), Krams 
R(1), Luoto S(5), Rantala MJ(2), Krams IA(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Life Sciences and Technology, 
Daugavpils University, Daugavpils, Latvia.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(3)Department of Botany and Ecology, University of Latvia, Rīga, Latvia.
(4)Department of Plant Protection, Institute of Agricultural and Environmental 
Sciences, Estonian University of Life Science, Tartu, Estonia.
(5)English, Drama and Writing Studies, School of Psychology, University of 
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(6)Department of Zoology and Animal Ecology, University of Latvia, Rīga, Latvia.
(7)Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia.

Deficiency of food resources in ontogeny is known to prolong an organism's 
developmental time and affect body size in adulthood. Yet life-history traits 
are plastic: an organism can increase its growth rate to compensate for a period 
of slow growth, a phenomenon known as 'compensatory growth'. We tested whether 
larvae of the greater wax moth Galleria mellonella can accelerate their growth 
after a fast of 12, 24 or 72 h. We found that a subgroup of female larvae showed 
compensatory growth when starved for 12 h. Food deficiency lasting more than 
12 h resulted in longer development and lower mass gain. Strength of 
encapsulation reactions against a foreign body inserted in haemocoel was the 
weakest in females that showed compensatory growth, whereas the strongest 
encapsulation was recorded in the males and females that fasted for 24 and 72 h. 
More specifically, we found sex-biased immune reactions so that females had 
stronger encapsulation rates than males in one group that fasted for 72 h. 
Overall, rapidly growing females had a short larval development period and the 
shortest adult lifespan. These results suggest that highly dynamic trade-offs 
between the environment, life-history traits and sex lead to plasticity in 
developmental strategies/growth rates in the greater wax moth.

© 2017 European Society For Evolutionary Biology. Journal of Evolutionary 
Biology © 2017 European Society For Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.13150
PMID: 28771863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Curr Biol. 2017 Apr 24;27(8):R292-R293. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.02.060.

Polyethylene bio-degradation by caterpillars of the wax moth Galleria 
mellonella.

Bombelli P(1), Howe CJ(2), Bertocchini F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Downing Site, Tennis 
Court Road, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Downing Site, Tennis 
Court Road, Cambridge, UK. Electronic address: ch26@cam.ac.uk.
(3)Instituto de Biomedicina y Biotecnologia de Cantabria-CSIC-Universidad de 
Cantabria-SODERCAN, Av.da A. Einstein, Santander, Spain. Electronic address: 
bertocchinif@unican.es.

Comment in
    Nat Mater. 2017 May 25;16(6):606. doi: 10.1038/nmat4912.
    Curr Biol. 2017 Aug 7;27(15):R744-R745. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.07.004.

Plastics are synthetic polymers derived from fossil oil and largely resistant to 
biodegradation. Polyethylene (PE) and polypropylene (PP) represent ∼92% of total 
plastic production. PE is largely utilized in packaging, representing ∼40% of 
total demand for plastic products (www.plasticseurope.org) with over a trillion 
plastic bags used every year [1]. Plastic production has increased exponentially 
in the past 50 years (Figure S1A in Supplemental Information, published with 
this article online). In the 27 EU countries plus Norway and Switzerland up to 
38% of plastic is discarded in landfills, with the rest utilized for recycling 
(26%) and energy recovery (36%) via combustion (www.plasticseurope.org), 
carrying a heavy environmental impact. Therefore, new solutions for plastic 
degradation are urgently needed. We report the fast bio-degradation of PE by 
larvae of the wax moth Galleria mellonella, producing ethylene glycol.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.02.060
PMID: 28441558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Mol Cell Biol. 2016 Aug 12;36(17):2300-12. doi: 10.1128/MCB.00156-16. Print 2016 
Sep 1.

Oma1 Links Mitochondrial Protein Quality Control and TOR Signaling To Modulate 
Physiological Plasticity and Cellular Stress Responses.

Bohovych I(1), Kastora S(2), Christianson S(3), Topil D(3), Kim H(1), Fangman 
T(4), Zhou YJ(4), Barrientos A(5), Lee J(1), Brown AJ(2), Khalimonchuk O(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA Redox Biology Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA.
(2)School of Medical Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, Aberdeen, 
United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA.
(4)Redox Biology Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Miami School 
of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA Department of Neurology, University of Miami 
School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA Redox Biology Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA okhalimonchuk2@unl.edu.

A network of conserved proteases known as the intramitochondrial quality control 
(IMQC) system is central to mitochondrial protein homeostasis and cellular 
health. IMQC proteases also appear to participate in establishment of signaling 
cues for mitochondrion-to-nucleus communication. However, little is known about 
this process. Here, we show that in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, inactivation of 
the membrane-bound IMQC protease Oma1 interferes with oxidative-stress responses 
through enhanced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) during logarithmic 
growth and reduced stress signaling via the TORC1-Rim15-Msn2/Msn4 axis. 
Pharmacological or genetic prevention of ROS accumulation in Oma1-deficient 
cells restores this defective TOR signaling. Additionally, inactivation of the 
Oma1 ortholog in the human fungal pathogen Candida albicans also alters TOR 
signaling and, unexpectedly, leads to increased resistance to neutrophil killing 
and virulence in the invertebrate animal model Galleria mellonella Our findings 
reveal a novel and evolutionarily conserved link between IMQC and TOR-mediated 
signaling that regulates physiological plasticity and pancellular 
oxidative-stress responses.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.00156-16
PMCID: PMC4985933
PMID: 27325672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. mBio. 2016 Apr 19;7(2):e00430-16. doi: 10.1128/mBio.00430-16.

The Acinetobacter baumannii Two-Component System AdeRS Regulates Genes Required 
for Multidrug Efflux, Biofilm Formation, and Virulence in a Strain-Specific 
Manner.

Richmond GE(1), Evans LP(1), Anderson MJ(2), Wand ME(3), Bonney LC(3), Ivens 
A(4), Chua KL(5), Webber MA(1), Sutton JM(3), Peterson ML(2), Piddock LJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Antimicrobial Agents Research Group, Institute of Microbiology and Infection, 
University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(3)Public Health England, Microbiology Services Division, Porton Down, 
Salisbury, United Kingdom.
(4)Centre for Immunity, Infection and Evolution, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore.
(6)Antimicrobial Agents Research Group, Institute of Microbiology and Infection, 
University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, United Kingdom 
l.j.v.piddock@bham.ac.uk.

Erratum in
    mBio. 2016 Jun 21;7(3):e00852-16. doi: 10.1128/mBio.00852-16.

The opportunistic pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii is able to persist in the 
environment and is often multidrug resistant (MDR), causing difficulties in the 
treatment of infections. Here, we show that the two-component system AdeRS, 
which regulates the production of the AdeABC multidrug resistance efflux pump, 
is required for the formation of a protective biofilm in an ex vivo porcine 
mucosal model, which mimics a natural infection of the human epithelium. 
Interestingly, deletion of adeB impacted only on the ability of strain AYE to 
form a biofilm on plastic and only on the virulence of strain Singapore 1 for 
Galleria mellonella RNA-Seq revealed that loss of AdeRS or AdeB significantly 
altered the transcriptional landscape, resulting in the changed expression of 
many genes, notably those associated with antimicrobial resistance and virulence 
interactions. For example, A. baumannii lacking AdeRS displayed decreased 
expression of adeABC, pil genes, com genes, and a pgaC-like gene, whereas loss 
of AdeB resulted in increased expression of pil and com genes and decreased 
expression of ferric acinetobactin transport system genes. These data define the 
scope of AdeRS-mediated regulation, show that changes in the production of 
AdeABC mediate important phenotypes controlled by AdeRS, and suggest that AdeABC 
is a viable target for antimicrobial drug and antibiofilm discovery [corrected].

Copyright © 2016 Richmond et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.00430-16
PMCID: PMC4850262
PMID: 27094331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Insect Sci. 2017 Jun;24(3):342-357. doi: 10.1111/1744-7917.12325. Epub 2016 May 
25.

Immunity of the greater wax moth Galleria mellonella.

Wojda I(1).

Author information:
(1)Maria Curie-Sklodowska University, Faculty of Biology and Biotechnology, 
Institute of Biology and Biochemistry, Department of Immunobiology, Akademicka 
19, 20-033, Lublin, Poland.

Investigation of insect immune mechanisms provides important information 
concerning innate immunity, which in many aspects is conserved in animals. This 
is one of the reasons why insects serve as model organisms to study virulence 
mechanisms of human pathogens. From the evolutionary point of view, we also 
learn a lot about host-pathogen interaction and adaptation of organisms to 
conditions of life. Additionally, insect-derived antibacterial and antifungal 
peptides and proteins are considered for their potential to be applied as 
alternatives to antibiotics. While Drosophila melanogaster is used to study the 
genetic aspect of insect immunity, Galleria mellonella serves as a good model 
for biochemical research. Given the size of the insect, it is possible to obtain 
easily hemolymph and other tissues as a source of many immune-relevant 
polypeptides. This review article summarizes our knowledge concerning G. 
mellonella immunity. The best-characterized immune-related proteins and peptides 
are recalled and their short characteristic is given. Some other proteins 
identified at the mRNA level are also mentioned. The infectious routes used by 
Galleria natural pathogens such as Bacillus thuringiensis and Beauveria bassiana 
are also described in the context of host-pathogen interaction. Finally, the 
plasticity of G. mellonella immune response influenced by abiotic and biotic 
factors is described.

© 2016 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/1744-7917.12325
PMID: 26847724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Biol Lett. 2016 Jan;12(1):20150660. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2015.0660.

Different food sources elicit fast changes to bacterial virulence.

Ketola T(1), Mikonranta L(2), Laakso J(3), Mappes J(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Excellence in Biological Interactions, Department of Biological and 
Environmental Science, University of Jyväskylä, PO Box 35, Jyväskylä 40014, 
Finland tketola@jyu.fi.
(2)Centre of Excellence in Biological Interactions, Department of Biological and 
Environmental Science, University of Jyväskylä, PO Box 35, Jyväskylä 40014, 
Finland.
(3)Centre of Excellence in Biological Interactions, Department of Biological and 
Environmental Science, University of Jyväskylä, PO Box 35, Jyväskylä 40014, 
Finland Centre of Excellence in Biological Interactions, Department of 
Biological and Environmental Science, University of Helsinki, PO Box 65, 
Helsinki 00014, Finland.

Environmentally transmitted, opportunistic bacterial pathogens have a life cycle 
that alternates between hosts and environmental reservoirs. Resources are often 
scarce and fluctuating in the outside-host environment, whereas overcoming the 
host immune system could allow pathogens to establish a new, resource abundant 
and stable niche within the host. We tested if short-term exposure to different 
outside-host resource types and concentrations affect Serratia 
marcescens-(bacterium)'s virulence in Galleria mellonella (moth). As expected, 
virulence was mostly dictated by the bacterial dose, but we also found a clear 
increase in virulence when the bacterium had inhabited a low (versus high) 
resource concentration, or animal-based (versus plant-based) resources for 48 h 
prior to injection. The results suggest that temporal changes in pathogen's 
resource environment can induce very rapid changes in virulence and affect 
infection severity. Such changes could also play an important role in shifts 
from environmental lifestyle to pathogenicity or switches in host range and have 
implications for the management of opportunistic pathogens and disease 
outbreaks.

© 2016 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2015.0660
PMCID: PMC4785914
PMID: 26763215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]