1. Environ Pollut. 2025 Apr 2;374:126199. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2025.126199. Online 
ahead of print.

Microplastics from cigarette filters: Comparative effects on selected 
terrestrial and aquatic invertebrates.

Dolar A(1), Mušič B(2), Skalar T(3), Marolt G(3), Drobne D(4), Škapin AS(5), 
Jemec Kokalj A(6).

Author information:
(1)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Jamnikarjeva 101, SI-1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia; Rudolf Maister Grammar and 
Secondary School Kamnik, Novi trg 41, SI-1241, Kamnik, Slovenia.
(2)Slovenian National Building and Civil Engineering Institute, Dimičeva ulica 
12, SI-1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(3)University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, Večna 
pot 113, SI-1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(4)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Jamnikarjeva 101, SI-1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(5)Slovenian National Building and Civil Engineering Institute, Dimičeva ulica 
12, SI-1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia; Faculty of Polymer Technology, Ozare 19, 
SI-2380, Slovenj Gradec, Slovenia.
(6)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Jamnikarjeva 101, SI-1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia; University of Ljubljana, Faculty 
of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, Večna pot 113, SI-1000, Ljubljana, 
Slovenia. Electronic address: anita.jemec@bf.uni-lj.si.

Cigarette filters comprise plasticised cellulose acetate, a synthetic polymer 
categorized as bioplastic. They represent a significant source of microplastics 
(MPs), in particular microfibers, and associated chemicals, yet their impact on 
organisms, especially soil invertebrates, is not well-studied. This research 
examines the effects of MPs milled from smoked (SCF-MPs) and unsmoked cigarette 
filters (UCF-MPs) on terrestrial invertebrates (Porcellio scaber, Tenebrio 
molitor) and aquatic invertebrates (Daphnia magna, Brachionus calyciflorus). 
SCF-MPs and UCF-MPs were found to be 9.06 ± 4.1 μm and 12.71 ± 6.82 μm in size, 
respectively. Both samples contained triacetin and potentially toxic metals, 
while SCF-MPs also contained nicotine and a larger number of trace organic 
compounds. While exposure to SCF-MPs or UCF-MPs (up to 1.5 % MPs, w/w in soil) 
did not affect the survival of either terrestrial invertebrate, several 
physiological responses were observed. These included changes in immune 
parameters, energy-related biomarker levels, and altered glutathione 
S-transferase and acetylcholinesterase activities. Both types of MPs were 
acutely toxic to aquatic invertebrates, reducing the survival rates of B. 
calyciflorus (10 mg L-1 of either particle after 48h exposure) and D. magna 
(100 mg L-1 of SCF-MPs after 48h exposure). SCF-MPs generally caused more 
pronounced effects than UCF-MPs. This study highlights the need for effective 
environmental management to address both smoked and unsmoked cigarette filters.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2025.126199
PMID: 40185183

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. Sci Total Environ. 2025 Mar 15;969:178879. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2025.178879. 
Epub 2025 Feb 28.

Can the insects Galleria mellonella and Tenebrio molitor be the future of 
plastic biodegradation?

Burd BS(1), Mussagy CU(2), Bebber C(3), Sant'Ana Pegorin Brasil G(4), Dos Santos 
LS(5), Guerra NB(6), Persinoti GF(7), Jucaud V(8), Goldbeck R(9), Herculano 
RD(10).

Author information:
(1)Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Km 1 Araraquara Jaú Highway, 14800-903 
Araraquara, SP, Brazil; Institute of Chemistry, São Paulo State University 
(UNESP), 55 Prof Francisco Degni Street, 14800-900 Araraquara, SP, Brazil. 
Electronic address: bsburd@homail.com.
(2)Escuela de Agronomía, Facultad de Ciencias Agronómicas y de los Alimentos, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Chile.
(3)Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Km 1 Araraquara Jaú Highway, 14800-903 
Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(4)Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Km 1 Araraquara Jaú Highway, 14800-903 
Araraquara, SP, Brazil; Institute of Chemistry, São Paulo State University 
(UNESP), 55 Prof Francisco Degni Street, 14800-900 Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(5)Faculty of Philosophy, Sciences and Languages of Ribeirão Preto, Universidade 
de São Paulo, University (USP), 3900 Bandeirantes Avenue, 14.040-901 Ribeirão 
Preto, SP, Brazil.
(6)School of Science, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 14-01 Eng. Luiz 
Edmundo Carrijo Coube, Avenue, Bauru, SP, Brazil.
(7)Brazilian Biorenewables National Laboratory (LNBR), Brazilian Center for 
Research in Energy and Materials (CNPEM), Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(8)Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 11507 W Olympic Blvd, 
Los Angeles, CA 90064, USA.
(9)Bioprocess and Metabolic Engineering Laboratory, School of Food Engineering, 
University of Campinas, UNICAMP Monteiro Lobato no. 80, Campinas, São Paulo 
13083-862, Brazil.
(10)Bioengineering & Biomaterials Group, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Km 1 Araraquara Jaú Highway, 14800-903 
Araraquara, SP, Brazil; Terasaki Institute for Biomedical Innovation (TIBI), 
11507 W Olympic Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90064, USA; Autonomy Research Center for 
STEAHM (ARCS), California State University, Northridge, CA 91324, USA. 
Electronic address: rondinelli.herculano@unesp.br.

Plastics have been an integral part of human lives, enhancing the functionality 
and safety of many everyday products, contributing significantly to our overall 
well-being. However, petroleum-based plastics can take hundreds or even 
thousands of years to decompose, resulting in an unprecedented plastic waste 
accumulation in the environment. Widely used conventional plastic disposal 
methods as landfilling and incineration are also environmentally harmful, 
frequently leading to soil/water contamination and the release of microplastics. 
To overcome these limitations, researchers have been investigating novel 
sustainable alternatives for plastic waste management, such as the use of 
microorganisms, microbial-based enzymes, and, more recently, some insect larvae, 
being Galleria mellonella and Tenebrio molitor the most promising ones. In this 
review, we explore different methods of plastic waste disposal focusing on 
recent discoveries regarding biological plastic degradation using insects as 
alternative methods. We also discuss the plastic degradation mechanisms employed 
by G. mellonella and T. molitor larvae known so far, as salivary enzymes and the 
pool of microorganisms in their gut. Finally, this review highlights key 
challenges in plastic biodegradation, such as standardization and experimental 
comparability, while proposing innovative perspectives like using insects as 
bioreactors and exploring unexplored research directions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2025.178879
PMID: 40022971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: B. B. Burd reports financial 
support was provided by Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Education 
Personnel (CAPES). R. D. Herculano reports financial support was provided by São 
Paulo State University (UNESP) and State of Sao Paulo Research Foundation 
(FAPESP). If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


3. Insects. 2025 Feb 7;16(2):176. doi: 10.3390/insects16020176.

Potential of Beauveria Species Isolated from Southern Kazakhstan for Controlling 
Colorado Potato Beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata) Populations Under Arid 
Conditions.

Abdukerim R(1), Mussina M(2), Abysheva G(3), Tumenbayeva N(3), Mombayeva B(4), 
Karabayeva A(4), Amangeldi N(1), Amangeldikyzy Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, Almaty 050040, Kazakhstan.
(2)Zhangir Khan West Kazakhstan Agrarian and Technical University, Uralsk 
090009, Kazakhstan.
(3)S. Seifullin Kazakh Agrotechnical Research University, Astana 010000, 
Kazakhstan.
(4)Taraz University named after M.Kh.Dulaty, Taraz 080012, Kazakhstan.

Environmentally sound insect pest management strategies require continuous 
isolation and identification of effective biocontrol agents from different 
ecosystems. The quest for fungal isolates that are adapted to high temperatures 
is particularly significant, as they hold the potential to produce 
mycoinsecticides that are highly effective in semiarid and arid areas. This 
study aimed to collect new virulent isolates of entomopathogenic fungi (EPF) 
from Kazakhstan that show promise for controlling Colorado potato beetle (CPB) 
populations under arid conditions. Local isolates could be adapted to abiotic 
and biotic factors in the environment in which they survive. The findings of 
this study should provide insights into the species of EPF that inhabit a 
specific arid region of Kazakhstan, examining their traits in the regional 
climate, soil composition, and biological diversity. Throughout 2023-2024, a 
series of soil samples was collected from diverse locations within the Turkestan 
region of southern Kazakhstan for the isolation of EPF. The isolation of EPF was 
conducted using susceptible larvae of Tenebrio molitor (Coleoptera: 
Tenebrionidae), a host that does not have specificity for particular species of 
EPF. Using this insect bait, 41 pure cultures of EPF were isolated from soils in 
the arid zone of Kazakhstan. Polymerase chain reaction analysis based on the 
TEF1-α locus showed that all the isolates were indistinguishable from Beauveria 
bassiana ARSEF 2860 species. However, analysis of the ITS locus revealed two 
cryptic species: B. bassiana and B. pseudobassiana. For laboratory evaluation of 
biological activity EPF, the second and third instars of CPB were collected from 
potato fields in southern Kazakhstan and placed in plastic containers. Test CPB 
larvae were treated with conidia suspensions at 1 × 107 spores/mL and survival 
was recorded daily for 3 weeks. The results of the bioassays revealed that all 
the new Kazakhstan isolates were pathogenic to larvae CPB and caused complete 
mortality by the end of the 11-day. These results showed that new isolates of 
EPF were highly virulent against larvae CPB.

DOI: 10.3390/insects16020176
PMCID: PMC11856833
PMID: 40003807

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no conflicts of interest.


4. Insects. 2025 Feb 5;16(2):165. doi: 10.3390/insects16020165.

Using Insect Larvae and Their Microbiota for Plastic Degradation.

Vital-Vilchis I(1), Karunakaran E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering, The University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield S1 3JD, UK.

Plastic pollution is one of the biggest current global threats to the 
environment given that petroleum-based plastic is recalcitrant and can stay in 
the environment for decades, even centuries, depending on the specific plastic 
type. Since less than 10% of all plastic made is recycled, and the other 
solutions (such as incineration or landfill storage) are pollutant methods, new, 
environmentally friendly solutions are needed. In this regard, the latest 
biotechnological discovery on this topic is the capability of insect larvae to 
use plastic polymers as carbon feedstock. This present review describes the most 
relevant information on the insect larvae capable of degrading plastic, mainly 
Galleria mellonella (Fabricius, 1798), Tenebrio molitor (Linnaeus, 1758), and 
Zophobas atratus (Fabricius, 1776), and also adds new information about other 
less commonly studied "plastivore" insects such as termites. This review covers 
the literature from the very first work describing plastic degradation by larvae 
published in 2014 all the way to the very latest research available (till June 
2024), focusing on the identification of a wide variety of plastic-degrading 
microorganisms isolated from larvae guts and on the understanding of the 
potential molecular mechanisms present for degradation to take place. It also 
describes the latest discoveries, which include the identification of novel 
enzymes from waxworm saliva.

DOI: 10.3390/insects16020165
PMCID: PMC11856541
PMID: 40003794

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Bioresour Technol. 2025 Apr;422:132149. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2025.132149. 
Epub 2025 Feb 12.

Interaction between Tetrabromobisphenol A and invertebrates in rigid 
polyurethane biodegradation: Inhibitory effects, chemical transformation and 
microbial adaptation.

Zhu P(1), Xie T(2), Gong S(2), Jiang H(2), Zhang L(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
xhnzp@shu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
lezhang@shu.edu.cn.

Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) is a brominated flame retardant widely used in 
electronic plastics, but its effects on invertebrate-mediated plastic 
biodegradation remain unclear. This study investigated the impact of TBBPA on 
the biodegradation of rigid polyurethane (RPU) by Galleria mellonella and 
Tenebrio molitor larvae, and the effects of both larvae on the chemical 
transformation of TBBPA. Results showed that TBBPA inhibited the uptake of RPU 
by both larvae, resulting in a decrease of intestinal protein-like fluorescence 
intensity, reduced the concentrations of certain metabolic by-products of RPU, 
and inhibited the growth of RPU degradation related bacteria. Most TBBPA was 
excreted by both larvae, and a small fraction was transformed into less toxic 
brominated organic compounds. Sequencing analysis suggested that 
Enterobacteriaceae, Enterococcus, and non-dominant gut bacteria might play a 
role in TBBPA degradation. This study provides detailed insights into the 
interactions involved in the biodegradation of TBBPA-containing RPU by two 
invertebrate species.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2025.132149
PMID: 39952618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


6. Environ Pollut. 2025 Mar 15;369:125840. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2025.125840. Epub 
2025 Feb 10.

Polyethylene microplastics inhibit the growth and reproduction of Colorado 
potato beetle and the predation efficiency of Stinkbug.

Zhang J(1), Hu Y(1), Zhang Y(1), He B(1), Wang J(1), Li Y(1), Li C(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Agronomy, Xinjiang Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of 
Prevention and Control of Invasive Alien Species in Agriculture & Forestry of 
the North-western Desert Oasis, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, 
Urumqi, 830052, China.
(2)College of Agronomy, Xinjiang Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of 
Prevention and Control of Invasive Alien Species in Agriculture & Forestry of 
the North-western Desert Oasis, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, 
Urumqi, 830052, China. Electronic address: lichaoyw@xjau.edu.cn.

Microplastics, as an environmental pollutant, are receiving increasing attention 
due to their ubiquitous presence in ecosystems and their ability to transfer and 
accumulate through food chains. Although it is well known that microplastics can 
enter plants through nutrient and water uptake by plant roots, the effects of 
microplastics on the growth, development and predation efficiency of herbivorous 
insects and predatory natural enemies after transfer from plants are still 
lacking. In order to investigate the impacts of polyethylene microplastics 
(PE-MPs) on the growth, reproduction of herbivorous insects and the predation 
efficiency of their predatory natural enemies, the quarantine pest globally - 
Leptinotarsa decemlineata and its predatory natural enemy - the Arma chinensis 
were selected as the research objects. Constructed a transfer system of 
polyethylene microplastics (PE-MPs) soil - potato plants - L. decemlineata and 
PE-MPs feed - Tenebrio molitor - A. chinensis. The key attention is paid to the 
reproduction, growth, and development of the L. decemlineata, as well as changes 
in the predation behavior and ability of A. chinensis against the L. 
decemlineata. We found that PE-MPs treatment reduced the egg production of adult 
L. decemlineata, prolonged their developmental time, and decreased their 
survival rate. Additionally, it extended the resting time, searching time, 
paralyzing time, and the latent period of A. chinensis, while decreasing the 
predation amount of A. chinensis on L. decemlineata larvae. Although the effects 
of PE-MPs on the growth and reproduction of L. decemlineata and the predatory 
efficiency of armpit A. chinensis were limited, our study still revealed the 
adverse effects of PE-MPs on phytophagous pests and predatory natural enemies. 
Finally, the mechanisms underlying these effects remain uncertain, necessitating 
further research to assess whether microplastics have potential long-term 
impacts on interactions between herbivorous insects and their predatory enemies. 
Collectively, these studies provide new insights into the effects of 
microplastics on herbivorous insects and predatory natural enemies.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2025.125840
PMID: 39938586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


7. J Appl Toxicol. 2025 Feb 9. doi: 10.1002/jat.4764. Online ahead of print.

The Development of Yellow Mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) as a Cheap and Simple 
Model to Evaluate Acute Toxicity, Locomotor Activity Changes, and Metabolite 
Profile Alterations Induced by Nanoplastics of Different Sizes.

Sun M(1), Zhao X(1), Luo S(1), Jiang M(2), Liu Q(3), Cao Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Hunan Province Key Laboratory of Typical Environmental Pollution and Health 
Hazards, School of Public Health, Hengyang Medical School, University of South 
China, Hengyang, China.
(2)Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, Key Laboratory for Arteriosclerology of 
Hunan Province, Hunan International Scientific and Technological Cooperation 
Base of Arteriosclerotic Disease, Hengyang Medical College, University of South 
China, Hengyang, China.
(3)Shanghai AB Sciex Analytical Instrument Trading Co. Ltd, Shanghai, China.

Due to the wide uses of plastic products, nanoplastics are ubiquitous 
contaminants in the environment. Hence, extensive studies used various models to 
evaluate the toxicity of nanoplastics. In the present study, we developed yellow 
mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) as an alternative model to investigate the acute 
toxicity of nanoplastics. Our results showed that microinjection with 500 mg/kg 
nanoplastics significantly increased death rate of yellow mealworms after 24 or 
48 h, with 100 nm particles being more effective compared with 20 nm ones. 
Meanwhile, dose-dependent increase of death rate was observed in yellow 
mealworms after injection with 2-200 mg/kg 100 nm nanoplastics. Exposure to 
2 mg/kg 100 nm but not 20 nm nanoplastics also led to hyperactivity of yellow 
mealworms. Both types of nanoplastics altered metabolite profiles, that 20 nm 
nanoplastics significantly up-regulated and down-regulated 9 and 12 metabolites, 
whereas 100 nm nanoplastics significantly up-regulated and down-regulated 16 and 
25 metabolites, respectively. Enrichment analysis revealed that 100 nm but not 
20 nm nanoplastics significantly affected alpha-linolenic acid metabolism 
(ko00592) and purine metabolism (ko00230). For the metabolites belonging to 
these pathways, 100 nm nanoplastics significantly up-regulated stearidonic acid 
but down-regulated guanine. Combined, these results revealed size-dependent 
effects of nanoplastics on acute toxicity, hyperactivity and metabolite profile 
changes in yellow mealworms. These results also indicated the potential uses of 
yellow mealworms as a cheap and simple model to evaluate the toxicity of 
nanoplastics.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.4764
PMID: 39924147


8. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2025 Feb;32(9):5332-5346. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-025-36029-8. Epub 2025 Feb 8.

Polyurethane foam degradation combining ozonization and mealworm biodegradation 
and its exploitation.

Ros M(1), Lidon P(2), Carrascosa A(2), Muñoz M(3), Navarro MV(3), Orts JM(4), 
Pascual JA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Soil and Water Conservation and OrganicWaste Management, Centro 
de Edafologia y Biología Aplicada del Segura (CEBAS-CSIC), University Campus of 
Espinardo, 30100, Murcia, Spain. margaros@cebas.csic.es.
(2)Department of Soil and Water Conservation and OrganicWaste Management, Centro 
de Edafologia y Biología Aplicada del Segura (CEBAS-CSIC), University Campus of 
Espinardo, 30100, Murcia, Spain.
(3)CETEM, Materials, Adhesion and Polymers, C/ Perales S/N, Yecla, Murcia, 
Spain.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Facultad de Farmacia, 
C/Prof., Universidad de Sevilla, García Gonzalez 2, 41012, Seville, Spain.

The biodegradation of polyurethane foam (PU foam) using a combination of 
oxidative pre-treatment (ozonization) and Tenebrio molitor (T. molitor) 
mealworms was conducted in this study. Different degrees of ozone oxidation (0%, 
25%, and 50%) were applied to PU foam, which was subsequently fed to mealworms. 
The mealworms' survival and growth were then compared to mealworms receiving a 
normal diet (bran). Results showed that mealworms fed with non-oxidized PU foam 
(PUF0) exhibited a higher consumption rate (11.8%) than those fed with 25% 
(PUF25) and 50% (PUF50) oxidized PU foam (7.7% and 5.7%, respectively). The 
survival rate was similar across all the PU foam diets and the bran diet. 
Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy and differential scanning 
calorimetry (DSC) analyses revealed minor structural changes in the PU foam. The 
gut microbiota analysis showed a significant correlation between the PU foam and 
bran diets. Among the different oxidized PU, distinct microbial community 
profiles were also observed, with the genus Klebsiella consistently present 
across the PU foam diets. The ozone pre-treatment altered the palatability and 
degradation of the PU foam by mealworms, while the mealworm frass and chitin 
obtained could potentially be used as resources for agricultural and industrial 
applications that would close the circular bio-economy cycle.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-025-36029-8
PMCID: PMC11868246
PMID: 39921778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Informed 
consent. Consent to participate: All authors consent to participate. Consent for 
publication: All authors consent to publish. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


9. Environ Sci Ecotechnol. 2024 Dec 24;23:100521. doi: 10.1016/j.ese.2024.100521. 
eCollection 2025 Jan.

Insect farming: A bioeconomy-based opportunity to revalorize plastic wastes.

Sanchez-Hernandez JC(1), Megharaj M(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Ecotoxicology, Institute of Environmental Sciences, University 
of Castilla-La Mancha, 45071, Toledo, Spain.
(2)Global Centre for Environmental Remediation (GCER), College of Engineering, 
Science and Environment, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, 2308, 
Australia.

Managing plastic waste is one of the greatest challenges humanity faces in the 
coming years. Current strategies-landfilling, incineration, and recycling-remain 
insufficient or pose significant environmental concerns, failing to address the 
growing volume of plastic residues discharged into the environment. Recently, 
increasing attention has focused on the potential of certain insect larvae 
species to chew, consume, and partially biodegrade synthetic polymers such as 
polystyrene and polyethylene, offering novel biotechnological opportunities for 
plastic waste management. However, insect-assisted plastic depolymerization is 
incomplete, leaving significant amounts of microplastics in the frass (or 
manure), limiting its use as a soil amendment. In this perspective, we propose a 
novel two-step bioconversion system to overcome these limitations, using insects 
to sustainably manage plastic waste while revalorizing its by-products (frass). 
The first step involves pyrolyzing microplastic-containing frass from mealworms 
(Tenebrio molitor larvae) fed on plastic-rich diets to produce biochar with 
enhanced adsorptive properties. The second stage integrates this biochar into 
the entomocomposting of organic residues, such as food waste, using black 
soldier fly (Hermetia illucens) larvae to produce nutrient-rich substrates 
enriched with carbon and nitrogen. This integrated system offers a potential 
framework for large-scale industrial applications, contributing to the 
bioeconomy by addressing both plastic waste and organic residue management. We 
critically examine the advantages and limitations of the proposed system based 
on current literature on biochar technology and entomocomposting. Key challenges 
and research opportunities are identified, particularly concerning the 
physiological and toxicological processes involved, to guide future efforts 
aimed at ensuring the scalability and sustainability of this innovative 
approach.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.ese.2024.100521
PMCID: PMC11758129
PMID: 39867963

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


10. Sensors (Basel). 2025 Jan 20;25(2):575. doi: 10.3390/s25020575.

Development of a Sustainable Flexible Humidity Sensor Based on Tenebrio molitor 
Larvae Biomass-Derived Chitosan.

Nettey-Oppong EE(1), Muhammad R(1), Ackah E(1), Yang H(1), Ali A(1)(2), Jeong 
HW(3), Kim SW(4), Seok YS(5), Choi SH(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Yonsei University, Wonju 26493, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering, Sukkur IBA University, Sukkur 65200, 
Pakistan.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Eulji University, Seongnam 13135, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Agricultural Biology, National Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Wanju 55365, Republic of Korea.
(5)Gangwon-do Agricultural Product Registered Seed Station, Chuncheon 24410, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Integrative Medicine, Major in Digital Healthcare, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, Seoul 06229, Republic of Korea.

This study presents the fabrication of a sustainable flexible humidity sensor 
utilizing chitosan derived from mealworm biomass as the primary sensing 
material. The chitosan-based humidity sensor was fabricated by casting chitosan 
and polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) films with interdigitated copper electrodes, forming 
a laminate composite suitable for real-time, resistive-type humidity detection. 
Comprehensive characterization of the chitosan film was performed using 
Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, contact angle measurements, and 
tensile testing, which confirmed its chemical structure, wettability, and 
mechanical stability. The developed sensor exhibited a broad range of 
measurements from 6% to 97% relative humidity (RH), a high sensitivity of 2.43 
kΩ/%RH, and a rapid response time of 18.22 s with a corresponding recovery time 
of 22.39 s. Moreover, the chitosan-based humidity sensor also demonstrated high 
selectivity for water vapor when tested against various volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs). The superior performance of the sensor is attributed to the 
structural properties of chitosan, particularly its ability to form reversible 
hydrogen bonds with water molecules. This mechanism was further elucidated 
through molecular dynamics simulations, revealing that the conductivity in the 
sensor is modulated by proton mobility, which operates via the Grotthuss 
mechanism under high-humidity and the packed-acid mechanism under low-humidity 
conditions. Additionally, the chitosan-based humidity sensor was further 
seamlessly integrated into an Internet of Things (IoT) framework, enabling 
wireless humidity monitoring and real-time data visualization on a mobile 
device. Comparative analysis with existing polymer-based resistive-type sensors 
further highlighted the superior sensing range, rapid dynamic response, and 
environmental sustainability of the developed sensor. This eco-friendly, 
biomass-derived, eco-friendly sensor shows potential for applications in 
environmental monitoring, smart agriculture, and industrial process control.

DOI: 10.3390/s25020575
PMCID: PMC11769542
PMID: 39860945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


11. Biodegradation. 2025 Jan 7;36(1):12. doi: 10.1007/s10532-024-10107-z.

Exploring the intricate studies on low-density polyethylene (LDPE) 
biodegradation by Bacillus cereus AP-01, isolated from the gut of Styrofoam-fed 
Tenebrio molitor larvae.

Akash K(1), Parthasarathi R(2)(3), Elango R(1), Bragadeeswaran S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai University, 
Annamalai Nagar, Chidambaram, Tamilnadu, 608002, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai University, 
Annamalai Nagar, Chidambaram, Tamilnadu, 608002, India. parthasangi@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Anbil Dharmalingam 
Agricultural College and Research Institute, Trichy, Tamilnadu, 620027, India. 
parthasangi@yahoo.com.
(4)Centre of Advanced Study in Marine Biology, Faculty of Marine Sciences, 
Annamalai University, Parangipettai, Tamilnadu, 608502, India.

This study aims to investigate the biodegradation potential of a gut bacterial 
strain, Bacillus cereus AP-01, isolated from Tenebrio molitor larvae fed 
Styrofoam, focusing on its efficacy in degrading low-density polyethylene 
(LDPE). The biodegradation process was evaluated through a series of assays, 
including clear zone assays, biodegradation assays, and planktonic cell growth 
assessments in mineral salt medium (MSM) over a 28-day incubation period. 
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and scanning electron microscopy 
(SEM) were employed to characterize the alterations in LDPE pellets, followed by 
molecular characterization. Over three months, sterile soil + LDPE pellets were 
treated with different concentrations of gut bacterial strain. The degradation 
capabilities were assessed by measuring pH, total microbial counts, carbon 
dioxide evolution, weight loss, and conducting phase contrast microscopy and 
mechanical strength tests. Results demonstrated that MSM containing LDPE as a 
carbon source with gut bacterial strain produced a clear zone and enhanced 
planktonic cell growth. FTIR analysis revealed the formation of new functional 
groups in the LDPE, while SEM images displayed surface erosion and cracking, 
providing visual evidence of biodegradation. Molecular characterization 
confirmed the strain as Bacillus cereus AP-01 (NCBI Accession Number: 
OR288218.1). A 10% inoculum concentration of Bacillus cereus AP-01 exhibited 
increased soil bacterial counts, carbon dioxide evolution, and pH levels, 
alongside a notable weight loss of 30.3% in LDPE pellets. Mechanical strength 
assessments indicated substantial reductions in tensile strength (7.81 ± 0.84 
MPa), compression (4.92 ± 0.53 MPa), hardness (51.96 ± 5.62 shore D), 
flexibility (10.62 ± 1.15 MPa), and impact resistance (14.79 ± 0.94 J). These 
findings underscore the biodegradation potential of Bacillus cereus AP-01, 
presenting a promising strategy for addressing the global LDPE pollution crisis.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10532-024-10107-z
PMID: 39775270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Ethical approval: Not applicable Consent to 
participate: Not applicable


12. J Hazard Mater. 2025 Mar 15;486:137109. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2025.137109. Epub 
2025 Jan 3.

In Vivo visualization of microplastic degradability and intestinal functional 
responses in a plastivore insect.

Peng BY(1), Wang WX(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Energy and Environment and State Key Laboratory of Marine 
Pollution, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon 999077, Hong Kong; Research 
Centre for the Oceans and Human Health, City University of Hong Kong Shenzhen 
Research Institute, Shenzhen 518057, China.
(2)School of Energy and Environment and State Key Laboratory of Marine 
Pollution, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon 999077, Hong Kong; Research 
Centre for the Oceans and Human Health, City University of Hong Kong Shenzhen 
Research Institute, Shenzhen 518057, China. Electronic address: 
wx.wang@cityu.edu.hk.

The plastivore insect Tenebrio molitor demonstrates significant potential for 
the rapid biodegradation and bioremediation of micro(nano)plastics. However, 
real-time visualization of the digestive degradation and removal of 
microplastics (MPs) during intestinal transit, along with the associated in vivo 
intestinal functional responses, remains challenging. Here, we developed second 
near-infrared (NIR-II) window aggregated-induced emission (AIE) MPs of two sizes 
(29.8 μm and 299.5 μm, respectively) to enable real-time monitoring of MPs 
removal in T. molitor larvae, and quantified the degradation kinetics. Our 
findings revealed that small MPs were digested and passed through the intestine 
more rapidly compared to large MPs, in strong contrast with patterns observed in 
organisms lacking plastic-degrading capacity. Digestive removal was more 
pronounced in the posterior than in the anterior midgut. A NIR-II peroxynitrite 
probe (NIR-ONOO-) was synthesized to investigate the intestinal functional 
responses to MPs biodegradation. Generation of reactive nitrogen species (RNS) 
was extensive during feedstock digestion in the intestine. The larvae 
instinctively modulated the ONOO- levels and heterogeneously redistributed the 
ONOO- in response to MPs biodegradation, with a more pronounced effect observed 
in larvae fed large MPs. This work presents a robust trafficking technology for 
the dynamic and in vivo visualization of micro(nano)plastics removal and 
bioremediation in plastivore species.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2025.137109
PMID: 39764959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


13. J Hazard Mater. 2025 Mar 15;486:137022. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.137022. Epub 
2024 Dec 26.

Exploring the plastic-fed Indian mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) gut bacterial 
strain (Bacillus subtilis AP-04) - A potential driver of polyethylene 
degradation.

Akash K(1), Parthasarathi R(2), Elango R(3), Bragadeeswaran S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai 
University, Annamalai nagar, Chidambaram, Tamil Nadu 608002, India. Electronic 
address: kakash30111997@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai 
University, Annamalai nagar, Chidambaram, Tamil Nadu 608002, India; Department 
of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural 
College and Research Institute, Trichy, Tamil Nadu 620027, India. Electronic 
address: parthasangi@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai 
University, Annamalai nagar, Chidambaram, Tamil Nadu 608002, India.
(4)Centre of Advanced Study in Marine Biology, Faculty of Marine Sciences, 
Annamalai University, Parangipettai, Tamil Nadu 608502, India.

Plastic biodegradation by microbes is an environmentally friendly and 
sustainable approach that has no negative consequences. In this study, mealworms 
were fed with 9 different diets with expanded polystyrene (EPS) and polyethylene 
foam (PF), after 28 days of incubation mealworm survival rates were highest at 
93.3 % when fed wheat bran alone whereas 83.3 % and 80 % when fed EPS and PF 
exclusively, indicating their adaptability to different plastics and their 
ability to thrive in various conditions. Histological examination revealed 
ingestion of EPS and PF found in the intestine confirming through cell wall 
disruptions. Ten bacterial isolates (AMI-1 to AMI-10) were obtained from EPS and 
PF-fed mealworms gut. After 30 days in mineral salt media (MSM) with low-density 
polyethylene (LDPE), AMI-4 showed higher turbidity and biofilm formation. Out of 
ten isolates seven bacterial isolates produced lipase, six produced proteases 
and laccases, and all exhibited positive amylase activity, with the highest zone 
formation in AMI-4. Morphophysical characteristics and 16S rRNA sequencing 
identified AMI-4 as Bacillus subtilis AP-04 (OR288581). A higher ATP value 
(783 ± 84.69), LDPE film Weight loss (36.55 %) and CO2 evolution 
(15.8 ± 0.99-22.39 ± 1.40 g/l) and the mechanical changes of LDPE film were 
confirmed through GSM loss 27.24 % and decrease in tensile strength 
(9.82 ± 0.61-7.98 ± 0.50 Mpa) by Bacillus subtilis AP-04 was recorded at 60 days 
of incubation. AFM, FTIR, and SEM analyses confirmed degradation in treated LDPE 
films compared to controls. This study reveals the potential of gut bacterial 
strain (Bacillus subtilis AP-04) on LDPE film, indicating their potential for 
bioremediation of plastic waste on a larger scale.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.137022
PMID: 39740547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


14. Bioresour Technol. 2025 Mar;419:132005. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2024.132005. 
Epub 2024 Dec 22.

Sustainable approach to polystyrene management and bioinsecticide production: 
Biodegradation by Tenebrio molitor larvae co-fed with residual biomass and 
bioactivity of frass pyrolysis bio-oil against insect pests.

Urrutia RI(1), Gutierrez VS(2), Werdin-González JO(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ciencias Biológicas y Biomédicas del Sur, INBIOSUR 
(CONICET-UNS), San Juan 671, 8000 Bahía Blanca, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Química del Sur, INQUISUR (CONICET-UNS), Av. Alem 1253, 8000 
Bahía Blanca, Argentina.
(3)Instituto de Ciencias Biológicas y Biomédicas del Sur, INBIOSUR 
(CONICET-UNS), San Juan 671, 8000 Bahía Blanca, Argentina; Departamento de 
Biología, Bioquímica y Farmacia, Universidad Nacional del Sur (UNS), San Juan 
670, 8000 Bahía Blanca, Argentina. Electronic address: jwerdin@hotmail.com.

Tenebrio molitor has gained attention as a potential solution for plastic 
pollution. This study explored the biodegradation of polystyrene (PS) by 
mealworms co-fed with rice bran (RB) under an optimized rearing scheme. The RB 
co-diet significantly increased PS consumption by two-fold compared to wheat 
bran (WB). Additionally, RB supported mealworm growth with favorable survival 
and feed conversion rates. Protein content of mealworms remained unchanged with 
PS plus RB, while significantly increased lipid stores and improved the fatty 
acid profile. Frass from PS (1) and biomass (2) intake was subjected to 
pyrolysis. Bio-oils from frass 2 exhibited insecticidal activity against Plodia 
interpunctella adults and Culex pipiens pipiens larvae. Finally, bio-oils 
demonstrated low toxicity to the aquatic non-target species Artemia salina, with 
up to three-fold selectivity towards Cx. p. pipiens. These findings highlight 
RB's role in PS management and the potential application of bio-oil as 
bioinsecticide.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2024.132005
PMID: 39719202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


15. J Invertebr Pathol. 2025 Mar;209:108242. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2024.108242. Epub 
2024 Dec 2.

Host-specific patterns of virulence and gene expression profiles of the 
broad-host-range entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae.

Iwanicki NSA(1), Gotti IA(2), Delalibera I Jr(2), Licht HHF(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology and Acarology, "Luiz de Queiroz" College of 
Agriculture (ESALQ), University of São Paulo (USP), Av. Pádua Dias, 11 - P.O. 
Box 9 - CEP: 13418-900, Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: 
natasha.iwanicki@usp.br.
(2)Department of Entomology and Acarology, "Luiz de Queiroz" College of 
Agriculture (ESALQ), University of São Paulo (USP), Av. Pádua Dias, 11 - P.O. 
Box 9 - CEP: 13418-900, Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 
Thorvaldsensvej 40, 1871 Frederiksberg C, Denmark.

Generalist pathogens with a broad host range encounter many different host 
environments. Such generalist pathogens are often highly versatile and adjust 
their expressed phenotype to the host being infected. Species in the fungal 
genus Metarhizium (Hypocreales: Clavicipitaceae) occupy various ecological 
niches, including plant rhizosphere symbionts, soil saprophytes, and insect 
pathogens with applications in biological control of pests. The species M. 
anisopliae is highly diverse combining the capability of association with plant 
roots and infection of a broad range of arachnid and insect hosts, from 
agricultural pests to vectors of human disease. It is among the most studied and 
applied biological control agents worldwide. Here, we investigate the phenotypic 
plasticity and differential gene expression of M. anisopliae blastospores during 
infection of different insect hosts. First, the virulence of M. anisopliae 
blastospores was evaluated against Tenebrio molitor (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae), 
Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), Gryllus assimilis (Orthoptera: 
Gryllidae), and Apis mellifera (Hymenoptera: Apidae). Second, the percentage of 
appressorium formation on the membranous wings of the four hosts was determined, 
and third, the fungal transcriptome profile during penetration on the hosts was 
analyzed. Our findings reveal that M. anisopliae blastospores exhibit high 
virulence against Tenebrio molitor, with significantly higher appressorium 
formation on beetle wings compared to the other three tested insects. We also 
document distinct gene expression patterns in M. anisopliae blastospores during 
insect infection of T. molitor, S. frugiperda, and A. mellifera, with notable 
variations observed in G. assimilis. These differences are associated with the 
expression of enzymes involved in the degradation of specific compounds present 
in each insect wing, as well as hydrophobins, destruxins, and specialized 
metabolites related to virulence. The study emphasizes the differences in fungal 
gene expression during infection of the four insect orders and highlights the 
virulence-related genes specific to each infective process.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2024.108242
PMID: 39631444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


16. J Environ Manage. 2024 Dec;372:123038. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.123038. Epub 
2024 Nov 19.

Harnessing insects mediated plastic biodegradation: Current insight and future 
directions.

Vishnu Murthy JS(1), Keerthana A(2), Logeswaran K(3), Das A(4), Choudhury S(5), 
Ramakrishna BG(1), Chowdhury S(5), Aggarwal H(5), Saravanan S(2), Pal A(6), 
Dubey VK(7), Kumar V(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Entomology, College of Agriculture, Vellanikkara, 
Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur, 680656, Kerala, India.
(2)Department of Entomology, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Lawley Road, 
Coimbatore, 641003, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Division of Entomology and Nematology, Indian Institute of Horticultural 
Research, Bengaluru, 560089, Karnataka, India.
(4)Department of Entomology, College of Agriculture, Assam Agricultural 
University, Jorhat, 785013, Assam, India.
(5)Department of Entomology, College of Agriculture, Punjab Agricultural 
University, Ludhiana, 141004, India.
(6)Department of Entomology, Post Graduate College of Agriculture, Dr. Rajendra 
Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa, Samastipur, 848125, Bihar, India.
(7)School of Agriculture and Veterinary Science, Shridhar University, Pilani, 
333031, Rajasthan, India. Electronic address: 
vinod.kumar.dubey@shridharuniversity.ac.in.
(8)Department of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Jute Research Station 
Katihar, Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Bhagalpur, 854103, Bihar, India.

Plastic polymers pose a significant challenge due to their resistance to 
degradation, resulting in their persistent accumulation in the environment and 
exacerbating a critical environmental concern. Urgent innovation and novel 
management technologies are essential to tackle this issue. Plastic 
biodegradation, distinguished by its environmentally friendly and safe 
attributes, has garnered substantial attention as a viable solution. Insects are 
pivotal in this process, utilizing their gut microbes to facilitate plastic 
degradation. The enzymatic action within the digestive tracts of diverse insect 
hosts and their microbial symbionts contributes to the breakdown of these 
polymers. This comprehensive review delves into the current landscape and 
strategies aimed at combating plastic pollution, with a specific focus on the 
involvement of insects such as mealworms (Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus), superworms 
(Zophobas atratus Blanchard), greater wax moths (Galleria mellonella Linnaeus), 
and various other insect species in the degradation of plastics. This review 
explores the different insects involved in plastic degradation, the mechanisms 
by which insects degrade plastics and delineates the characteristics of 
resultant degradable products. Furthermore, it investigates the future potential 
for plastic degradation by insects and examines the prospective developmental 
pathways for degradable plastics. Ultimately, this review provides an array of 
solutions by using various insects to pervasive the issue of plastic pollution.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.123038
PMID: 39566205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests:The authors declare that they have 
no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


17. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:136424. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136424. Epub 
2024 Nov 8.

From insects to mammals! Tissue accumulation and transgenerational transfer of 
micro/nano-plastics through the food chain.

Wang Y(1), Nan X(2), Sun H(1), Shi Y(3), Miao J(4), Li Y(2), Han X(1), Zhang 
N(5), Wang H(2), Ren N(6), Zhao X(7), Liu B(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, School of Resources and Civil 
Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang 110819, China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Life Sciences, 
China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, China.
(3)Clinical Medicine, The Second Clinical Medical School, China Medical 
University, Shenyang 110122, China.
(4)Clinical Medicine, The First Clinical Medical School, China Medical 
University, Shenyang 110001, China.
(5)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong SAR; Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(7)Department of Environmental Engineering, School of Resources and Civil 
Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang 110819, China; State Key 
Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of Environment, 
Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic address: 
zhaoxin@mail.neu.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Life Sciences, 
China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, China. Electronic address: 
bqliu@cmu.edu.cn.

Despite extensive global attention on microplastic pollution, our understanding 
of the pathways underlying microplastic translocation, accumulation, and their 
potential impacts on ecosystems and human health through the food chain remains 
incomplete. To investigate the translocation and accumulation of microplastics 
from insects to mammals, we developed a novel oral exposure model that Tenebrio 
molitor larvae (yellow mealworms, invertebrate terrestrial insects) were firstly 
orally exposed to both micro and nanometer-sized plastics (M/NPs), and 
subsequently fed as a food source to mice (mammals). Our results provide clear 
evidence that micro/nanoplastics (M/NPs) do indeed translocate through the food 
chain, from lower to higher trophic levels. Fluorescence microscopy and tissue 
quantification revealed the accumulation of M/NPs in the digestive, somatic, and 
circulatory systems of the larvae. Specifically, the food chain transferred 
M/NPs were later detected in the digestive, respiratory, and urinary systems of 
mice, showcasing strong fluorescent signals in vital organs such as the lungs, 
liver, intestines, brain, and kidneys, as well as in embryos. These findings 
highlight the intricate dynamics of M/NPs contamination, emphasizing their 
ability to traverse biological barriers, accumulate in organisms, and 
potentially impact embryonic development via food chain transfer.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136424
PMID: 39531820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


18. Environ Sci Technol. 2024 Oct 8;58(40):17717-17731. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.4c01495. Epub 2024 Sep 24.

Novel Feruloyl Esterase for the Degradation of Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET) 
Screened from the Gut Microbiome of Plastic-Degrading Mealworms (Tenebrio 
Molitor Larvae).

Mamtimin T(1)(2), Ouyang X(3), Wu WM(4), Zhou T(1), Hou X(1), Khan A(1)(5), Liu 
P(1), Zhao YL(3), Tang H(3), Criddle CS(4), Han H(2), Li X(1).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cell Activities and Stress 
Adaptations, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(2)Center for Grassland Microbiome, State Key Laboratory of Herbage Improvement 
and Grassland Agro-Ecosystems, College of Pastoral Agriculture Science and 
Technology, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic and Developmental Sciences, School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200000, China.
(4)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, 
United States.
(5)Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory of Saline-alkali Vegetation Ecology 
Restoration College of Life Sciences, Northeast Forestry University, Harbin 
150040, China.

Mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) larvae can degrade both plastics and lignocellulose 
through synergistic biological activities of their gut microbiota because they 
share similarities in chemical and physical properties. Here, a total of 428 
genes encoding lignocellulose-degrading enzymes were screened from the gut 
microbiome of T. molitor larvae to identify poly(ethylene terephthalate) 
(PET)-degrading activities. Five genes were successfully expressed in E. coli, 
among which a feruloyl esterase-like enzyme named TmFae-PETase demonstrated the 
highest PET degradation activity, converting PET into MHET (0.7 mgMHETeq 
·h-1·mgenzyme-1) and TPA (0.2 mgTPAeq ·h-1·mgenzyme-1) at 50 °C. TmFae-PETase 
showed a preference for the hydrolysis of ferulic acid methyl ester (MFA) in the 
presence of both PET and MFA. Site-directed mutagenesis and molecular dynamics 
simulations of TmFae-PETase revealed similar catalytic mechanisms for both PET 
and MFA. TmFae-PETase effectively depolymerized commercial PET, making it a 
promising candidate for application. Additionally, the known PET hydrolases 
IsPETase, FsC, and LCC also hydrolyzed MFA, indicating a potential origin of PET 
hydrolytic activity from its lignocellulosic-degrading abilities. This study 
provides an innovative strategy for screening PET-degrading enzymes identified 
from lignocellulose degradation-related enzymes within the gut microbiome of 
plastic-degrading mealworms. This discovery expands the existing pool of 
plastic-degrading enzymes available for resource recovery and bioremediation 
applications.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.4c01495
PMID: 39315846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Nov 25;953:176130. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176130. 
Epub 2024 Sep 10.

Effects of plastic aging on biodegradation of polystyrene by Tenebrio molitor 
larvae: Insights into gut microbiome and bacterial metabolism.

Ding MQ(1), Ding J(2), Yang SS(3), Ren XR(1), Shi SN(1), Zhang LY(4), Xing 
DF(1), Ren NQ(1), Wu WM(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic 
address: dingjie123@hit.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic 
address: shanshanyang@hit.edu.cn.
(4)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Yancheng Institute of 
Technology, Yancheng 224051, China.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Chemistry, 
William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, 
CA 94305, USA.

Plastics aging reduces resistance to microbial degradation. Plastivore Tenebrio 
molitor rapidly biodegrades polystyrene (PS, size: < 80 μm), but the effects of 
aging on PS biodegradation by T. molitor remain uncharacterized. This study 
examined PS biodegradation over 24 days following three pre-treatments: freezing 
with UV exposure (PS1), UV exposure (PS2), and freezing (PS3), compared to 
pristine PS (PSv) microplastic. The pretreatments deteriorated PS polymers, 
resulting in slightly higher specific PS consumption (602.8, 586.1, 566.7, and 
563.9 mg PS·100 larvae-1·d-1, respectively) and mass reduction rates (49.6 %, 
49.5 %, 49.2 %, and 48.7 %, respectively) in PS1, PS2, and PS3 compared to PSv. 
Improved biodegradation correlated with reduced molecular weights and the 
formation of oxidized functional groups. Larvae fed more aged PS exhibited 
greater gut microbial diversity, with microbial community and metabolic pathways 
shaped by PS aging, as supported by co-occurrence network analysis. These 
findings indicated that the aging treatments enhanced PS biodegradation by only 
limited extent but impacted greater on gut microbiome and bacterial metabolic 
genes, indicating that the T. molitor host have highly predominant capability to 
digest PS plastics and alters gut microbiome to adapt the PS polymers fed to 
them.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176130
PMID: 39260508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


20. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Nov 20;952:176005. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176005. 
Epub 2024 Sep 3.

Zophobas morio versus Tenebrio molitor: Diversity in gut microbiota of larvae 
fed with polymers.

Urbanek AK(1), Rybak J(2), Hanus-Lorenz B(2), Komisarczyk DA(1), Mirończuk 
AM(3).

Author information:
(1)Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Institute of 
Environmental Biology, Laboratory for Biosustainability, Kożuchowska 5b, 51-631 
Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Environmental Engineering, Wrocław University of Science and 
Technology, Wybrzeże Wyspiańskiego 27, 50370 Wrocław, Poland.
(3)Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Institute of 
Environmental Biology, Laboratory for Biosustainability, Kożuchowska 5b, 51-631 
Wrocław, Poland. Electronic address: aleksandra.mironczuk@upwr.edu.pl.

Plastics are common synthetic materials that have been abundantly present as 
pollutants in natural ecosystems for the past few decades. Thus scientists have 
investigated the capability of plastic digestion by insects. Here we compare the 
effectiveness of biodegradation of the specific polymers: expanded polystyrene 
(EPS), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), low-density polyethylene (LDPE) and 
polypropylene (PP) altogether with above variants of plastics with microelements 
and vitamins by the mealworm - the larval form of the beetle Tenebrio molitor - 
and larvae of the beetle Zophobas morio, known as superworms. Z. morio beetles 
on all diets were able to complete their life cycle from larvae through pupae 
and imago, gaining 19 % and 22 % in mass on LDPE and EPS; 8 % and 7 % on PVC and 
PP. Mealworms (T. molitor) reared on polymers had minimal weight gain, gaining 
2 % on LDPE and EPS, and a slight reduction in mass was observed when reared on 
PP and PVC. Not all specimens of T. molitor were able to pupate and transform to 
the adult stage. The results suggest that larvae of Z. morio can eat and degrade 
some types of plastic compounds more effectively than T. molitor. The changes in 
microbial gut communities were compared between these two species. The highest 
mass gain for Z. morio is associated with higher diversity in gut microbia and 
it was more diverse than that of T. molitor. Citrobacter freundii, a bacterium 
recognized for its ability to degrade long-chain polymers, linear hydrocarbons 
and cyclic hydrocarbons, was found in the microflora of Z. morio. The results 
confirm that superworms can survive on polymer feed. Moreover, this diet 
supplemented with microelements and vitamins increases the number of bacterial 
species and the diversity in the microbial gut.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176005
PMID: 39236822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


21. Biomater Adv. 2024 Dec;165:214022. doi: 10.1016/j.bioadv.2024.214022. Epub 2024 
Aug 31.

Impacts of industrial food wastes on nutritional value of mealworm (Tenebrio 
molitor) and its gut microbiota community shift.

Yu H(1), Li W(1), Feng S(1), Loo SCJ(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Material Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, 
50 Nanyang Avenue, 639798, Singapore.
(2)School of Material Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, 
50 Nanyang Avenue, 639798, Singapore; Singapore Centre for Environmental Life 
Sciences Engineering (SCELSE), Nanyang Technological University, 60 Nanyang 
Drive, 67551, Singapore; Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang 
Technological University, 11 Mandalay Road, 308232, Singapore. Electronic 
address: joachimloo@ntu.edu.sg.

The extensive investigation into the capacity of mealworms to digest diverse 
food by-products, as well as plastic wastes, has been a focal point in recent 
years. The transition from traditional diet sources like brans to food wastes 
has the potential to impact the physiological properties of mealworms. This 
study explored the utilization of various industrial food wastes such as okara, 
barley spent grain (BSG), sesame oil meal (SOM), and spent coffee grounds (SCG) 
as feed alternatives, and reports on their survival rate, biomass variations, 
and nutritional composition. In additional, the shift in their gut microbiota 
was also assessed. Among the range of industrial food wastes, mealworms 
exhibited the most robust growth performance when nourished with BSG. This 
particular group showed a survival rate of 98.33 % and a biomass increase of 
23.06 %. In contrast, mealworms fed with SCG demonstrated the lowest survival 
rate and experienced a significant reduction in biomass. Although the groups fed 
with okara and SCG displayed moderate growth performance, both exhibited protein 
levels comparable to those observed in the oatmeal-fed group (used as the 
positive control). Notably, the inclusion of BSG in the mealworm diet exhibited 
the potential to enrich their omega-3 fatty acid content, suggesting potential 
benefits for applications as animal feed or even human consumption. Furthermore, 
an analysis of the gut microbiome was conducted to investigate the associations 
between specific diets and the composition of mealworm gut microbiota. In 
summary, food wastes such as BSG may be repurposed as feed substrates for 
mealworms before converting them into an alternative source of protein.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioadv.2024.214022
PMID: 39226676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


22. Insects. 2024 Aug 13;15(8):611. doi: 10.3390/insects15080611.

Microorganism Contribution to Mass-Reared Edible Insects: Opportunities and 
Challenges.

Carpentier J(1), Abenaim L(2), Luttenschlager H(1), Dessauvages K(1), Liu 
Y(1)(3), Samoah P(1), Francis F(1), Caparros Megido R(1).

Author information:
(1)Functional and Evolutionary Entomology, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of 
Liège, Passage Des Déportés 2, 5030 Gembloux, Belgium.
(2)Department of Agriculture, Food and Environment, University of Pisa, Via del 
Borghetto 80, 56124 Pisa, Italy.
(3)Institute of Feed Research, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), 
Haidian District, Beijing 100193, China.

The interest in edible insects' mass rearing has grown considerably in recent 
years, thereby highlighting the challenges of domesticating new animal species. 
Insects are being considered for use in the management of organic by-products 
from the agro-industry, synthetic by-products from the plastics industry 
including particular detoxification processes. The processes depend on the 
insect's digestive system which is based on two components: an enzymatic 
intrinsic cargo to the insect species and another extrinsic cargo provided by 
the microbial community colonizing-associated with the insect host. Advances 
have been made in the identification of the origin of the digestive functions 
observed in the midgut. It is now evident that the community of microorganisms 
can adapt, improve, and extend the insect's ability to digest and detoxify its 
food. Nevertheless, edible insect species such as Hermetia illucens and Tenebrio 
molitor are surprisingly autonomous, and no obligatory symbiosis with a 
microorganism has yet been uncovered for digestion. Conversely, the intestinal 
microbiota of a given species can take on different forms, which are largely 
influenced by the host's environment and diet. This flexibility offers the 
potential for the development of novel associations between insects and 
microorganisms, which could result in the creation of synergies that would 
optimize or expand value chains for agro-industrial by-products, as well as for 
contaminants.

DOI: 10.3390/insects15080611
PMCID: PMC11355034
PMID: 39194816

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


23. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Oct 5;478:135475. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.135475. Epub 
2024 Aug 13.

New insights on the degradation of polystyrene and polypropylene by larvae of 
the superworm Zophobas atratus and gut bacterial consortium enrichments obtained 
under different culture conditions.

Miravalle E(1), Balboa S(2), Zanetti M(3), Otero A(4), Lazzari M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Turin, 10125 Turin, Italy; Centro 
Singular de Investigación en Química Biolóxica e Materiais Moleculares (CiQUS), 
Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain. 
Electronic address: edoardo.miravalle@unito.it.
(2)Departamento de Microbioloxía e Parasitoloxía, Facultade de Bioloxía, 
Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain; 
Cross-disciplinary Research Center in Environmental Technologies (CRETUS), 
Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain. 
Electronic address: sabela.balboa@usc.es.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Turin, 10125 Turin, Italy. Electronic 
address: marco.zanetti@unito.it.
(4)Departamento de Microbioloxía e Parasitoloxía, Facultade de Bioloxía, 
Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain; 
Aquatic One Health Research Institute (iARCUS). Universidade de Santiago de 
Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain. Electronic address: 
anamaria.otero@usc.es.
(5)Centro Singular de Investigación en Química Biolóxica e Materiais Moleculares 
(CiQUS), Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, 
Spain; Departamento de Química Física, Facultade de Química, Universidade de 
Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain. Electronic address: 
massimo.lazzari@usc.es.

This study aims to deepen knowledge of the biodegradation of plastics, focusing 
on polypropylene (PP) fabric from surgical masks and polystyrene (PS) by larvae 
of Zophobas atratus as well as of specialized bacterial consortia from their 
gut, which were obtained in different enrichment conditions (aerobic, anaerobic, 
presence or absence of combined nitrogen). Plastics ingested by larvae obtained 
in Spain did not show any signs of oxidation but only limited depolymerization, 
preferably from the lowest molecular weight chains. Gut microbiota composition 
changed as an effect of plastic feeding. Such differences were more evident in 
bacterial enrichment cultures, where the polymer type influenced the composition 
more than by culture conditions, with an increase in the presence of 
nitrogen-fixers in anaerobic conditions. PS and PP degradation by different 
enrichment cultures was confirmed under aerobic and anaerobic conditions by 
respirometry tests, with anaerobic conditions favouring a more active plastic 
degradation. In addition, exposure to selected bacterial consortia in aerobiosis 
induced limited surface oxidation of PS. This possibly indicates that different 
biochemical routes are being utilized in the anaerobic gut and in aerobic 
conditions to degrade the polymer.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.135475
PMID: 39146588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


24. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Nov 15;951:175379. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.175379. 
Epub 2024 Aug 11.

Response of terrestrial crustacean Porcellio scaber and mealworm Tenebrio 
molitor to non-degradable and biodegradable fossil-based mulching film 
microplastics.

Jemec Kokalj A(1), Dolar A(2), Nagode A(2), Drobne D(2), Kuljanin A(3), 
Kalčíková G(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: anita.jemec@bf.uni-lj.si.
(2)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(3)University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Agricultural mulching films are potential sources of microplastics (MPs) in 
soil. As an alternative to conventional non-degradable mulching films, a variety 
of different biodegradable mulching films are used. However, it is not yet known 
whether MPs from biodegradable mulching films pose a lower risk to terrestrial 
invertebrates compared to MPs from conventional mulching films. In this study, 
the effects of MPs produced from two conventional polyethylene (PE-1 and PE-2) 
and two biodegradable (starch-based poly(butylene adipate co-terephthalate); 
PBAT-BD-1, and PBAT-BD-2) fossil-based mulching films on terrestrial crustacean 
woodlice Porcellio scaber and mealworm Tenebrio molitor were compared. A key 
finding was that no clear differences in induced responses between biodegradable 
and conventional MPs were detected. No adverse effects on P. scaber after two 
weeks and on T. molitor after four weeks of exposure were observed up to 5 % 
(w/w dry soil) of either MP type. However, some sublethal physiological changes 
in metabolic rate and immune parameters were found in P. scaber after two weeks 
of exposure indicating a response of organisms to the presence of MP exposure in 
soil. In addition, it was demonstrated that both types of MPs might affect the 
soil water holding capacity and pH. In conclusion, we confirmed that 
biodegradable MPs can induce responses in organisms hence further studies 
testing the environmental hazard of biodegradable MPs are justified.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.175379
PMID: 39137843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


25. Materials (Basel). 2024 Jul 25;17(15):3670. doi: 10.3390/ma17153670.

Chitosan Extracted from the Biomass of Tenebrio molitor Larvae as a Sustainable 
Packaging Film.

Mwita CS(1), Muhammad R(1), Nettey-Oppong EE(1), Enkhbayar D(1), Ali A(1)(2), 
Ahn J(1), Kim SW(3), Seok YS(4), Choi SH(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Yonsei University, Wonju 26493, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering, Sukkur IBA University, Sukkur 65200, 
Pakistan.
(3)Department of Agricultural Biology, National Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Wanju 55365, Republic of Korea.
(4)Gangwon-do Agricultural Product Registered Seed Station, Chuncheon 24410, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Integrative Medicine, Major in Digital Healthcare, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, Seoul 06229, Republic of Korea.

Waste from non-degradable packaging materials poses a serious environmental risk 
and has led to interest in developing sustainable bio-based packaging materials. 
Sustainable packaging materials have been made from diverse naturally derived 
materials such as bamboo, sugarcane, and corn starch. In this study, we made a 
sustainable packaging film using chitosan extracted from the biomass of yellow 
mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) shell waste. The extracted chitosan was used to 
create films, cross-linked with citric acid (CA) and with the addition of 
glycerol to impart flexibility, using the solvent casting method. The successful 
cross-linking was evaluated using Fourier-Transform Infrared (FTIR) analysis. 
The CA cross-linked mealworm chitosan (CAMC) films exhibited improved water 
resistance with moisture content reduced from 19.9 to 14.5%. Improved barrier 
properties were also noted, with a 28.7% and 10.2% decrease in vapor 
permeability and vapor transmission rate, respectively. Bananas were selected 
for food preservation, and significant changes were observed over a duration of 
10 days. Compared to the control sample, bananas packaged in CAMC pouches 
exhibited a lesser loss in weight because of excellent barrier properties 
against water vapor. Moreover, the quality and texture of bananas packaged in 
CAMC pouch remained intact over the duration of the experiment. This indicates 
that adding citric acid and glycerol to the chitosan structure holds promise for 
effective food wrapping and contributes to the enhancement of banana shelf life. 
Through this study, we concluded that chitosan film derived from mealworm 
biomass has potential as a valuable resource for sustainable packaging 
solutions, promoting the adoption of environmentally friendly practices in the 
food industry.

DOI: 10.3390/ma17153670
PMCID: PMC11312738
PMID: 39124333

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


26. Foods. 2024 Jul 11;13(14):2194. doi: 10.3390/foods13142194.

Effect of the Addition of Soybean Protein and Insect Flours on the Quality of 
Cooked Sausages.

Kolev N(1), Vlahova-Vangelova D(1), Balev D(1), Dragoev S(1), Dimov K(2), Petkov 
E(3), Popova T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Meat and Fish Technology, University of Food Technologies, 26 
Maritsa Blvd, 4002 Plovdiv, Bulgaria.
(2)Agricultural Academy, Institute of Cryobiology and Food Technologies, 53 
Cherni vrah Blvd, 1407 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(3)Agricultural Academy, Institute of Animal Science-Kostinbrod, Pochivka St, 
2232 Kostinbrod, Bulgaria.

This study aimed to assess the effect of the addition (2%) of soybean protein 
(SP) and insect flours derived from house crickets (Acheta domesticus, HCF) and 
yellow mealworm (Tenebrio molitor, YMF) in cooked sausages. The technological 
characteristics of the batter, the chemical composition of the sausages, their 
technological traits and lipid stability during refrigerated storage, as well as 
their sensory properties, were investigated. The SP, HCF and YMF batters 
displayed higher pH (p = 0.0025) and stability (p < 0.0001) but a darker colour 
(p < 0.0001) than the control samples. The addition of SP increased the 
plasticity of the batter (p = 0.0017), while YMF decreased its structural 
strength (p = 0.0274). Higher pH and darker colour were detected in SP-, HCF- 
and YMF-containing sausages; however, the effect of the alternative proteins 
depended on the duration of storage. The plasticity decreased in the 
insect-containing sausages (p = 0.0010) and increased over time (p = 0.0136), 
whereas the elasticity was lower in the YMF group (p < 0.0001). The protein and 
fat contents were higher (p < 0.0001) in the sausages containing alternative 
protein. TBARS content decreased over time in these groups. The HCF and YMF 
sausages received lower scores for their appearance, colour, texture, flavour 
and taste, suggesting the need for further technological interventions to make 
such products more attractive to consumers.

DOI: 10.3390/foods13142194
PMCID: PMC11276549
PMID: 39063278

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


27. Environ Sci Technol. 2024 Jul 19. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.4c05113. Online ahead of 
print.

Microplastics Biofragmentation and Degradation Kinetics in the Plastivore Insect 
Tenebrio molitor.

Peng BY(1)(2), Wang WX(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Energy and Environment and State Key Laboratory of Marine 
Pollution, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong 999077, China.
(2)Research Centre for the Oceans and Human Health, City University of Hong Kong 
Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen 518057, China.

The insect Tenebrio molitor possesses an exceptional capacity for ultrafast 
plastic biodegradation within 1 day of gut retention, but the kinetics remains 
unknown. Herein, we investigated the biofragmentation and degradation kinetics 
of different microplastics (MPs), i.e., polyethylene (PE), poly(vinyl chloride) 
(PVC), and poly(lactic acid) (PLA), in T. molitor larvae. The intestinal 
reactions contributing to the in vivo MPs biodegradation were concurrently 
examined by utilizing aggregated-induced emission (AIE) probes. Our findings 
revealed that the intestinal biofragmentation rates essentially followed the 
order of PLA > PE > PVC. Notably, all MPs displayed retention effects in the 
intestine, with PVC requiring the longest duration for complete 
removal/digestion. The dynamic rate constant of degradable MPs (0.2108 h-1 for 
PLA) was significantly higher than that of persistent MPs (0.0675 and 0.0501 h-1 
for PE and PVC, respectively) during the digestive gut retention. 
Surprisingly,T. molitor larvae instinctively modulated their internal digestive 
environment in response to in vivo biodegradation of various MP polymers. 
Esterase activity and intestinal acidification both significantly increased 
following MPs ingestion. The highest esterase and acidification levels were 
observed in the PLA-fed and PVC-fed larvae, respectively. High digestive 
esterase activity and relatively low acidification levels inT. molitor larvae 
may, to some extent, contribute to more efficient MPs removal within the 
plastic-degrading insect. This work provided important understanding of MPs 
biofragmentation and intestinal responses to in vivo MPs biodegradation in 
plastic-degrading insects.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.4c05113
PMID: 39028927


28. Chemosphere. 2024 Sep;363:142783. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2024.142783. Epub 
2024 Jul 6.

Beyond carrots: Evaluation of gelling agents as wet feeds for Tenebrio molitor 
L. (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) larvae.

Zafeiriadis S(1), Adamaki-Sotiraki C(2), Rumbos CI(2), Athanassiou CG(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Entomology and Agricultural Zoology, Department of Agriculture 
Crop Production and Rural Environment, School of Agricultural Sciences, 
University of Thessaly, Phytokou Str., 38446, Volos, Greece. Electronic address: 
sof.zafeir@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratory of Entomology and Agricultural Zoology, Department of Agriculture 
Crop Production and Rural Environment, School of Agricultural Sciences, 
University of Thessaly, Phytokou Str., 38446, Volos, Greece.

Previous studies have shown that larvae of the yellow mealworm, Tenebrio molitor 
L. (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae), need a source of moisture to grow and perform 
well. Currently, much research has been oriented towards the effect of dry feed 
on larval growth and performance. The effect of different wet feeds as moisture 
source on the performance traits of T. molitor larvae has not been thoroughly 
investigated yet. This study aims to investigate in laboratory trials the effect 
of various gelling agents (agar, carrageenans, guar gum, xanthan gum, sodium 
alginate, modified starch, and pectin) on the growth and performance of T. 
molitor larvae. A number of 50 newly emerged larvae obtained from the rearings 
of the LEAZ were inserted in plastic vials together with 4 g of wheat bran as 
dry feed. Additionally, 1 g of gelling agents was provided 3 times per week as 
moisture sources. Carrot slices served as control. Larval survival and weight 
were recorded weekly until the appearance of the first pupa. Dry feed was 
replenished when depleted. Our data showed that gelling agents efficiently 
supported the growth of T. molitor larvae, in terms of larval survival and 
weight, as well as feed utilization expressed as FCR. Interestingly, 
carrageenans seem to be the most appropriate gelling agent for T. molitor larvae 
rearing as it can enhance their weight and is also able to reduce their 
development time and their specific growth rate.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2024.142783
PMID: 38972459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interestsor personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


29. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Oct 10;946:174490. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.174490. 
Epub 2024 Jul 3.

Effects of agricultural microplastics in multigenerational tests with insects; 
mealworms Tenebrio molitor.

Jemec Kokalj A(1), Nagode A(2), Drobne D(2), Dolar A(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: anita.jemec@bf.uni-lj.si.
(2)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Mulching films, widely used in agriculture, are a large source of microplastics 
(MPs) to soil. However, there is little knowledge on the long-term effects of 
agricultural MPs on soil invertebrates. We investigated the effects of MPs from 
conventional non-biodegradable, fossil-based, low-density polyethylene (PE) and 
biodegradable fossil-based poly(butylene adipate-coterephthalate) (starch-PBAT 
blend) mulching films on two generations of the mealworm Tenebrio molitor. No 
effects of MPs (0.005 %-5 %, w/w dry food) on mealworm development and survival 
were observed until the end of the experiments (12 weeks for the first 
generation, nine weeks for the second generation), but effects on their moulting 
and growth were observed. These were most evident for PE MPs (5 %, w/w), where a 
decrease in larval growth and moulting was noted in the first generation. On the 
contrary, PBAT MPs (5 %, w/w) significantly induced the growth of mealworms in 
the second generation. In addition, there was a non-significant trend towards 
increased growth at all other PBAT MP exposure concentrations. Increased growth 
is most likely due to the biodegradation of starch PBAT MPs by mealworms. 
Overall, these data suggest that PE and PBAT MPs do not induce significant 
effects on mealworms at environmentally relevant concentrations, but rather only 
at very high exposure concentrations (5 %).

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.174490
PMID: 38969109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


30. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Sep 5;476:135031. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.135031. Epub 
2024 Jun 24.

Integrating genomics, molecular docking, and protein expression to explore new 
perspectives on polystyrene biodegradation.

Qiu Q(1), Li H(1), Sun X(1), Tian K(1), Gu J(1), Zhang F(1), Zhou D(2), Zhang 
X(3), Huo H(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Environment, Northeast Normal University, No. 2555 Jingyue Avenue, 
Changchun City, Jilin Province, China.
(2)School of Environment, Northeast Normal University, No. 2555 Jingyue Avenue, 
Changchun City, Jilin Province, China; Engineering Research Center of Low-Carbon 
Treatment and Green Development of Polluted Water in Northeast China, Ministry 
of Education, Northeast Normal University, Changchun 130117, China.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Hainan Vocational University of Science and Technology, 
Haikou 571126, China. Electronic address: Zhangxw2844@sina.com.
(4)School of Environment, Northeast Normal University, No. 2555 Jingyue Avenue, 
Changchun City, Jilin Province, China; Engineering Research Center of Low-Carbon 
Treatment and Green Development of Polluted Water in Northeast China, Ministry 
of Education, Northeast Normal University, Changchun 130117, China. Electronic 
address: huohl@nenu.edu.cn.

Faced with the escalating challenge of global plastic pollution, this study 
specifically addresses the research gap in the biodegradation of polystyrene 
(PS). A PS-degrading bacterial strain was isolated from the gut of Tenebrio 
molitor, and genomics, molecular docking, and proteomics were employed to 
thoroughly investigate the biodegradation mechanisms of Pseudomonas putida H-01 
against PS. Using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier-transform infrared 
spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR), and contact angle analysis, significant morphological 
and structural changes in the PS films under the influence of the H-01 strain 
were observed. The study revealed several potential degradation genes and ten 
enzymes that were specifically upregulated in the PS degradation environment. 
Additionally, a novel protein with laccase-like activity, LacQ1, was purified 
from this strain for the first time, and its crucial role in the PS degradation 
process was confirmed. Through molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) 
simulations, the interactions between the enzymes and PS were detailed, 
elucidating the binding and catalytic mechanisms of the degradative enzymes with 
the substrate. These findings have deepened our understanding of PS degradation.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.135031
PMID: 38943889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


31. Int J Biol Macromol. 2024 Jul;273(Pt 2):132826. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.132826. Epub 2024 May 31.

Synthesis of novel L-lactic acid-based plasticizers and their effects on the 
flexibility, crystallinity, and optical transparency of poly(lactic acid).

Hou B(1), Wang Y(1), Li B(2), Gong T(1), Wu J(3), Li J(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Changzhou University, Changzhou 
213164, China.
(2)Unipower Hydrogen Membrane Materials (Jiangsu) Research Institute Co., Ltd., 
China.
(3)Changshu Sanheng Building Material Co. Ltd, Changshu 215500, China.
(4)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Changzhou University, Changzhou 
213164, China; Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Environmentally Friendly Polymeric 
Materials, National-Local Joint Engineering Research Center of Biomass Refining 
and High-Quality Utilization, Changzhou University, Changzhou 213164, China. 
Electronic address: lijinchun88@163.com.

Using bio-based plasticizers derived from biomass resources to replace 
traditional phthalates can avoid the biotoxicity and non-biodegradability caused 
by the migration of plasticizers during the application of plastics. In this 
study, L-lactic acid and levulinic acid were employed as the major biomass 
monomer to successfully fabricate L-lactic acid-based plasticizers (LBL-n, 
n = 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5) containing a diverse number of lactate groups. The 
plasticizing mechanism was explained, manifesting that L-lactic acid-based 
plasticizers containing a substantial number of lactate groups could effectively 
improve the flexibility of poly (lactic acid) (PLA), and the elongation at break 
was 590 %-750 %. Compared to LBL-1.5 plasticized-PLA films, the tensile strength 
and modulus of ketonized-LBL-1.5 (KLBL-1.5) plasticized-PLA films increased to 
59 % and 163 %, indicating the ketal functionality of plasticizers enhanced the 
strength of PLA. Meanwhile, the increment of lactate groups and the introduction 
of the ketal group in the plasticizer increased the crystallization, migration, 
and volatilization stability of plasticized-PLA films and also kept their 
outstanding optical transparency. Besides, the biodegradability of KLBL-1.5 was 
investigated by active soil and Tenebrio molitor experiments, and its 
degradation products were characterized. The findings indicated that KLBL-1.5 
was fully decomposed. Taken together, this paper offers new promise for 
developing high-efficiency and biodegradable plasticizers.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.132826
PMID: 38825277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


32. Environ Sci Technol. 2024 Jun 11;58(23):10368-10377. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.4c01130. Epub 2024 May 30.

Generation and Fate of Nanoplastics in the Intestine of Plastic-Degrading Insect 
(Tenebrio molitor Larvae) during Polystyrene Microplastic Biodegradation.

Peng BY(1), Xu Y(1)(2)(3), Zhou X(1)(4), Wu WM(5), Zhang Y(1)(4)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China.
(2)National Engineering Research Center of Protected Agriculture, Shanghai 
Engineering Research Center of Protected Agriculture, Tongji University, 
Shanghai 200092, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Rural Toilet and Sewage Treatment Technology, Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, China.
(4)Shanghai Institute of Pollution Control and Ecological Security, Tongji 
University, Shanghai 200092, China.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305-4020, 
United States.

The insect Tenebrio molitor exhibits ultrafast efficiency in biodegrading 
polystyrene (PS). However, the generation and fate of nanoplastics (NPs) in the 
intestine during plastic biodegradation remain unknown. In this study, we 
investigated the biodegradation of PS microplastics (MPs) mediated by T. molitor 
larvae over a 4-week period and confirmed biodegradation by analyzing Δδ13C in 
the PS before and after biotreatment (-28.37‰ versus -24.88‰) as an effective 
tool. The ·OH radicals, primarily contributed by gut microbiota, and H2O2, 
primarily produced by the host, both increased after MP digestion. The size 
distribution of residual MP particles in excrements fluctuated within the 
micrometer ranges. PS NPs were detected in the intestine but not in the 
excrements. At the end of Weeks 1, 2, 3, and 4, the concentrations of PS NPs in 
gut tissues were 3.778, 2.505, 2.087, and 2.853 ng/lava, respectively, while PS 
NPs in glands were quantified at 0.636, 0.284, and 0.113 ng/lava and eventually 
fell below the detection limit. The PS NPs in glands remained below the 
detection limit at the end of Weeks 5 and 6. This indicates that initially, NPs 
generated in the gut entered glands, then declined gradually and eventually 
disappeared or possibly biodegraded after Week 4, associated with the elevated 
plastic-degrading capacities of T. molitor larvae. Our findings unveil rapid 
synergistic MP biodegradation by the larval host and gut microbiota, as well as 
the fate of generated NPs, providing new insights into the risks and fate 
associated with NPs during invertebrate-mediated plastic biodegradation.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.4c01130
PMID: 38814143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Bioresour Technol. 2024 Jul;403:130895. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2024.130895. 
Epub 2024 May 25.

Optimizing polystyrene degradation, microbial community and metabolite analysis 
of intestinal flora of yellow mealworms, Tenebrio molitor.

Matyakubov B(1), Lee TJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, Seoul National University of Science 
and Technology, 232 Gongneung-ro, Nowon-gu, Seoul 01811, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Environmental Engineering, Seoul National University of Science 
and Technology, 232 Gongneung-ro, Nowon-gu, Seoul 01811, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: leetj@seoultech.ac.kr.

This study explored a direct feeding of expanded polystyrene as the sole diet 
for breeding Tenebrio molitor larvae. Temperature and relative humidity were 
manipulated to evaluate polystyrene biodegradation efficiency, survival rate, 
and formation of micro-polystyrene residue. Efficient conditions were at 
temperature of 25 °C with a humidity of 65 ± 5 %. Comparative metabolomic and 
metabolic-metabolic network analyses was performed for visualizing detailed 
pathway. Possibility of forming 4 (p)-hydroxyphenylacetic acid from phenylacetic 
acid with further conversion to 4-methylphenol, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, and 
4-hydroxybenzoate could be seen as a side chain route for further biodegrading 
process. Key species identified in the gut of T. molitor larvae included 
Citrobacter sp., Serratia marcescens, Klebsiella aerogenes, and Klebsiella 
oxytoca. Pseudomonas aeruginosa was detected only under an anaerobic condition 
whereas Acinetobacter sp. was present only under an aerobic condition. These 
results demonstrate the potential to decrease micro-polystyrene by optimizing 
breeding conditions and biodegradation process of polystyrene.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2024.130895
PMID: 38801953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


34. Polymers (Basel). 2024 May 15;16(10):1404. doi: 10.3390/polym16101404.

Biodegradation of Polystyrene by Plastic-Eating Tenebrionidae Larvae.

Di Liberto EA(1), Battaglia G(1), Pellerito R(2), Curcuruto G(3), Dintcheva 
NT(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Ingegneria, Università di Palermo, Viale delle Scienze, Ed. 
6, 90128 Palermo, Italy.
(2)Istituto Comprensivo Statale "Luigi Capuana", Via A. Narbone, 55, 90138 
Palermo, Italy.
(3)Institute for Polymers, Composites and Biomaterials (IPCB)-CNR, Via Paolo 
Gaifami 18, 95126 Catania, Italy.

Polystyrene (PS) is an extremely stable polymer with a relatively high molecular 
weight and a strong hydrophobic character that makes it highly resistant to 
biodegradation. In this study, PS was subjected to biodegradation tests by 
Tenebrio Molitor (T. Molitor) and Zophobas Morio (Z. Morio) larvae. 
Specifically, six different experimental diets were compared: (i) T. Molitor fed 
with bran; (ii) T. Molitor fed only PS; (iii) T. Molitor fed only PS treated 
with H2O2; (iv) Z. Morio fed with bran; (v) Z. Morio fed only PS; and (vi) Z. 
Morio fed only PS treated with H2O2. Therefore, the mass change of the larvae 
and the survival rate were measured periodically, while the frass collected 
after 15 and 30 days was analyzed by different analyses, such as spectroscopy 
(FTIR), spectrometry (molecular weight and polydispersity), thermal analysis 
(TGA) and microscopy (scanning electron microscopy observations). The obtained 
results suggest that in the case of T. Molitor larvae, larvae feeding on bran 
showed the highest survival rate of ~94% at 30 days, while in the case of the Z. 
Morio larvae, the highest survival rate was exhibited by larvae eating PS-H2O2. 
Although not strongly pronounced, the Mw and Mn of PS in the frass of both T. 
Molitor and Z. Morio larvae decreased over 30 days, suggesting PS 
biodegradation. Finally, the morphological analysis shows that PS samples 
isolated from the frass of T. Molitor and Z. Morio larvae showed completely 
different, rough and irregularly carved surface structures, in comparison to PS 
before biodegradation.

DOI: 10.3390/polym16101404
PMCID: PMC11125288
PMID: 38794597

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


35. ScientificWorldJournal. 2024 May 9;2024:3350591. doi: 10.1155/2024/3350591. 
eCollection 2024.

Molecular Detection and Phylogenetic Analysis of the alkB Gene in Klebsiella 
oxytoca Strains Isolated from the Gut of Tenebrio molitor.

Mupamhadzi TL(1), Machona O(1), Chidzwondo F(1), Mangoyi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Biochemistry, University of Zimbabwe, Harare, 
Zimbabwe.

The challenge in polystyrene disposal has caused researchers to look for urgent 
innovative and ecofriendly solutions for plastic degradation. Some insects have 
been reported to use polystyrene as their sole carbon source, and this has been 
linked to the presence of microbes in their guts that aid in plastic digestion. 
Thus, this study focuses on the molecular detection and phylogenetic analysis of 
the alkane-1-monooxygenase (alkB) gene in Klebsiella oxytoca strains isolated 
from the gut of Tenebrio molitor. The alkB gene encodes for 
alkane-1-monooxygenase, an enzyme involved in the oxidation of inactivated 
alkanes. This gene can be used as a marker to assess bacteria's ability to 
biodegrade polystyrene. Three bacterial strains were isolated from the guts of 
T. molitor mealworms and were confirmed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of 
the 16S ribosomal RNA gene. The primers used in the amplification of the 16S 
ribosomal RNA region were designed using NCBI, a bioinformatics tool. To detect 
the presence of the alkB gene in the isolated bacterial strains, a set of 
primers used in the amplification of this gene was manually designed from the 
conserved regions of the alkB nucleotide sequences of eleven bacterial species 
from GenBank. TCOFFE online tool was used to align the alkB sequences of the 
bacteria, while Jalview and ConSurf were used to view the alignment. The 
amplified alkB gene was then sequenced using the Sanger sequencing technique, 
blasted on NCBI to look for similar sequences, and a phylogenetic tree was 
constructed. Based on the 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences, the isolated 
bacterial strains were confirmed to be Klebsiella oxytoca NBRC 102593, 
Klebsiella oxytoca JCM 1665, and Klebsiella oxytoca ATCC 13182. The alkB gene 
sequence identical to fourteen alkB gene sequences derived from Actinobacteria 
whole genome was detected in Klebsiella oxytoca for the first time to the best 
of our knowledge. The novel nucleotide sequence was published in the NCBI 
database under accession number OP959069. This gene sequence was found to be for 
the enzyme alkane-1-monooxygenase and may be one of the enzymes responsible for 
polystyrene degradation by the putative Klebsiella oxytoca ATCC 13182 in T. 
molitor.

Copyright © 2024 Tsitsi Lynn Mupamhadzi et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2024/3350591
PMCID: PMC11098606
PMID: 38756480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


36. Arch Microbiol. 2024 Apr 30;206(5):238. doi: 10.1007/s00203-024-03947-z.

Biodegradation of polystyrene nanoplastics by Achromobacter xylosoxidans M9 
offers a mealworm gut-derived solution for plastic pollution.

El-Kurdi N(1)(2), El-Shatoury S(3), ElBaghdady K(4), Hammad S(5)(6), Ghazy 
M(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Program, Basic and Applied Science Institute, Egypt-Japan 
University of Science and Technology, New Burj Al-Arab, Alexandria, Egypt.
(2)Aquaculture Biotechnology Department, Fish Farming and Technology Institute, 
Suez Canal University, Ismailia, Egypt.
(3)Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Suez Canal University, Ismailia, 
Egypt. sahar_hassan@science.suez.edu.eg.
(4)Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(5)Medicinal Chemistry Department, PharmD Program, Egypt-Japan University of 
Science and Technology, New Burj Al-Arab, Alexandria, Egypt.
(6)Pharmaceutical Chemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Helwan University, 
Ain Helwan, Egypt.
(7)Biochemistry Department, Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt.

Nanoplastics pose significant environmental problems due to their high mobility 
and increased toxicity. These particles can cause infertility and inflammation 
in aquatic organisms, disrupt microbial signaling and act as pollutants carrier. 
Despite extensive studies on their harmful impact on living organisms, the 
microbial degradation of nanoplastics is still under research. This study 
investigated the degradation of nanoplastics by isolating bacteria from the gut 
microbiome of Tenebrio molitor larvae fed various plastic diets. Five bacterial 
strains capable of degrading polystyrene were identified, with Achromobacter 
xylosoxidans M9 showing significant nanoplastic degradation abilities. Within 
6 days, this strain reduced nanoplastic particle size by 92.3%, as confirmed by 
SEM and TEM analyses, and altered the chemical composition of the nanoplastics, 
indicating a potential for enhanced bioremediation strategies. The strain also 
caused a 7% weight loss in polystyrene film over 30 days, demonstrating its 
efficiency in degrading nanoplastics faster than polystyrene film. These 
findings might enhance plastic bioremediation strategies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-024-03947-z
PMCID: PMC11058615
PMID: 38684545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


37. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2024 Apr;74(4):006346. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.006346.

Apirhabdus apintestini gen. nov., sp. nov., a member of a novel genus of the 
family Enterobacteriaceae, isolated from the gut of the western honey bee Apis 
mellifera.

Quinn MW(1), Daisley BA(1)(2), Vancuren SJ(1), Bouchema A(1), Niño E(3)(4), Reid 
G(5), Thompson GJ(2), Allen-Vercoe E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
ON, N1G 2W1, Canada.
(2)Department of Biology, Western University, London, ON, N6A 5C1, Canada.
(3)Department of Entomology and Nematology, University of California, Davis, CA, 
95616, USA.
(4)University of California Agriculture and Natural Resources, Oakland, CA, 
95618, USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, Western University, London, ON, N6A 
5B7, Canada.

A Gram-negative, motile, rod-shaped bacterial strain, CA-0114T, was isolated 
from the midgut of a western honey bee, Apis mellifera. The isolate exhibited 
≤96.43 % 16S rRNA gene sequence identity (1540 bp) to members of the families 
Enterobacteriaceae and Erwiniaceae. Phylogenetic trees based on genome blast 
distance phylogeny and concatenated protein sequences encoded by conserved genes 
atpD, fusA, gyrB, infB, leuS, pyrG and rpoB separated the isolate from other 
genera forming a distinct lineage in the Enterobacteriaceae. In both trees, the 
closest relatives were Tenebrionicola larvae YMB-R21T and Tenebrionibacter 
intestinalis BIT-L3T, which were isolated previously from Tenebrio molitor L., a 
plastic-eating mealworm. Digital DNA-DNA hybridization, orthologous average 
nucleotide identity and average amino acid identity values between strain 
CA-0114T and the closest related members within the Enterobacteriaceae were 
≤23.1, 75.45 and 76.04 %, respectively. The complete genome of strain CA-0114T 
was 4 451669 bp with a G+C content of 52.12 mol%. Notably, the apparent 
inability of strain CA-0114T to ferment d-glucose, inositol and l-rhamnose in 
the API 20E system is unique among closely related members of the 
Enterobacteriaceae. Based on the results obtained through genotypic and 
phenotypic analysis, we propose that strain CA-0114T represents a novel species 
and genus within the family Enterobacteriaceae, for which we propose the name 
Apirhabdus apintestini gen. nov., sp. nov. (type strain CA-0114T=ATCC 
TSD-396T=DSM 116385T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.006346
PMCID: PMC11092227
PMID: 38652096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


38. Int J Biol Macromol. 2024 May;268(Pt 2):131731. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.131731. Epub 2024 Apr 20.

Sourcing chitin from exoskeleton of Tenebrio molitor fed with polystyrene or 
plastic kitchen wrap.

Ilijin L(1), Nikolić MV(2), Vasiljević ZZ(2), Todorović D(3), Mrdaković M(3), 
Vlahović M(3), Matić D(3), Tadić NB(4), Perić-Mataruga V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Insect Physiology and Biochemistry, Institute for Biological 
Research "Siniša Stanković", National Institute of Republic of Serbia, 
University of Belgrade, Despot Stefan Blv. 142, 11060 Belgrade, Serbia. 
Electronic address: lararid@ibiss.bg.ac.rs.
(2)University of Belgrade - Institute for Multidisciplinary Research, Kneza 
Višeslava 1, 11030 Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Department of Insect Physiology and Biochemistry, Institute for Biological 
Research "Siniša Stanković", National Institute of Republic of Serbia, 
University of Belgrade, Despot Stefan Blv. 142, 11060 Belgrade, Serbia.
(4)University of Belgrade, Faculty of Physics, Studentski trg 12, 11000 
Belgrade, Serbia.

In this work we have characterized and compared chitin sourced from exoskeleton 
of Tenebrio molitor larvae fed with polystyrene or plastic kitchen wrap combined 
with bran in the ratio 1: 1 with chitin sourced from larvae exoskeleton fed only 
with bran. Analysis of the frass by ATR-FTIR showed very similar spectra and 
confirmed degradation of the plastic feed components, while ATR-FTIR analysis of 
the exoskeleton verified the absence of any plastic residue. Deproteinization 
followed by demineralization produced 6.78-5.29 % chitin, showing that plastic 
(polystyrene or plastic kitchen wrap) in the larvae diet resulted in heavier 
insect exoskeleton, but yielded slightly less chitin, with the lowest value 
obtained for plastic kitchen wrap in the insect diet. The deacetylation degree 
of 98.17-98.61 % was determined from measured ATR-FTIR spectra. XRD analysis 
confirmed the presence of α-chitin with a crystallinity index of 66.5-62 % and 
crystallite size 4-5 nm. Thermogravimetric analysis showed similar degradation 
curves for all chitin samples, with two degradation steps. These results show 
that chitin sourced from exoskeleton of T. molitor larvae fed with plastic 
(polystyrene or plastic kitchen wrap) and contributing to significant 
biodegradation of major polluting materials can be a feasible and alternative 
source of chitin, further promoting a bio-circular economy.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.131731
PMID: 38649081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


39. J Environ Manage. 2024 May;358:120832. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.120832. Epub 
2024 Apr 9.

Biodegradation of various grades of polyethylene microplastics by Tenebrio 
molitor and Tenebrio obscurus larvae: Effects on their physiology.

Ding MQ(1), Ding J(2), Zhang ZR(3), Li MX(1), Cui CH(1), Pang JW(4), Xing DF(1), 
Ren NQ(1), Wu WM(5), Yang SS(6).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150090, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150090, China. Electronic 
address: dingjie123@hit.edu.cn.
(3)College of Wildlife and Protected Area, Northeast Forestry University, 
Harbin, 150040, China.
(4)China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group, CECEP Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing, 100089, China.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305, USA.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150090, China. Electronic 
address: shanshanyang@hit.edu.cn.

Polyethylene (PE) is the most productive plastic product and includes three 
major polymers including high-density polyethylene (HDPE), linear low-density 
polyethylene (LLDPE) and low-density polyethylene (LDPE) variation in the PE 
depends on the branching of the polymer chain and its crystallinity. Tenebrio 
obscurus and Tenebrio molitor larvae biodegrade PE. We subsequently tested 
larval physiology, gut microbiome, oxidative stress, and PE degradation 
capability and degradation products under high-purity HDPE, LLDPE, and LDPE 
powders (<300 μm) diets for 21 days at 65 ± 5% humidity and 25 ± 0.5 °C. Our 
results demonstrated the specific PE consumption rates by T. molitor was 
8.04-8.73 mg PE ∙ 100 larvae-1⋅day-1 and by T. obscurus was 7.68-9.31 for LDPE, 
LLDPE and HDPE, respectively. The larvae digested nearly 40% of the ingested 
three PE and showed similar survival rates and weight changes but their fat 
content decreased by 30-50% over 21-day period. All the PE-fed groups exhibited 
adverse effects, such as increased benzoquinone concentrations, intestinal 
tissue damage and elevated oxidative stress indicators, compared with bran-fed 
control. In the current study, the digestive tract or gut microbiome exhibited a 
high level of adaptability to PE exposure, altering the width of the gut 
microbial ecological niche and community diversity, revealing notable 
correlations between Tenebrio species and the physical and chemical properties 
(PCPs) of PE-MPs, with the gut microbiome and molecular weight change due to 
biodegradation. An ecotoxicological simulation by T.E.S.T. confirmed that PE 
degradation products were little ecotoxic to Daphnia magna and Rattus norvegicus 
providing important novel insights for future investigations into the 
environmentally-friendly approach of insect-mediated biodegradation of 
persistent plastics.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.120832
PMID: 38599089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


40. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Jun 1;927:172243. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.172243. 
Epub 2024 Apr 5.

Biodegradation of aged polyethylene (PE) and polystyrene (PS) microplastics by 
yellow mealworms (Tenebrio molitor larvae).

Wang Q(1), Chen H(2), Gu W(2), Wang S(2), Li Y(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Energy and Environment, Anhui University of Technology, Maanshan, 
Anhui 243002, China. Electronic address: wqj0511@163.com.
(2)School of Energy and Environment, Anhui University of Technology, Maanshan, 
Anhui 243002, China.

Globally, over 287 million tons of plastic are disposed in landfills, rivers, 
and oceans or are burned every year. The results are devastating to our 
ecosystems, wildlife and human health. One promising remedy is the yellow 
mealworm (Tenebrio molitor larvae), which has proved capable of degrading 
microplastics (MPs). This paper presents a new investigation into the 
biodegradation of aged polyethylene (PE) film and polystyrene (PS) foam by the 
Tenebrio molitor larvae. After a 35 - day feeding period, both pristine and aged 
MPs can be consumed by larvae. Even with some inhibitions in larvae growth due 
to the limited nutrient supply of aged MPs, when compared with pristine MPs, the 
aged MPs were depolymerized more efficiently in gut microbiota based on gel 
permeation chromatography (GPC) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy 
(FTIR) analysis. With the change in surface chemical properties, the metabolic 
intermediates of aged MPs contained more oxygen-containing functional groups and 
shortened long-chain alkane, which was confirmed by gas chromatography and mass 
spectrometry (GC-MS). High-throughput sequencing revealed that the richness and 
diversity of gut microbes were restricted in the MPs-fed group. Although MPs had 
a negative effect on the relative abundance of the two dominant bacteria 
Enterococcaceae and Lactobacillaceae, the aged MPs may promote the relative 
abundance of Enterobacteriaceae and Streptococcaceae. Redundancy analysis (RDA) 
further verified that the aged MPs are effectively biodegraded by yellow 
mealworm. This work provides new insights into insect-mediated mechanisms of 
aged MP degradation and promising strategies for MP sustainable and efficient 
solutions.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.172243
PMID: 38582118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


41. Environ Sci Technol. 2024 Apr 16;58(15):6647-6658. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.3c06954. 
Epub 2024 Apr 2.

Molecular-Weight-Dependent Degradation of Plastics: Deciphering Host-Microbiome 
Synergy Biodegradation of High-Purity Polypropylene Microplastics by Mealworms.

He L(1)(2), Ding J(1), Yang SS(1), Zang YN(1), Pang JW(3), Xing D(1), Zhang 
LY(4), Ren N(1), Wu WM(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Urban Pollutant Conversion, Department of Environmental 
Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 
230026, China.
(3)CECEP Digital Technology Co., Ltd., China Energy Conservation and 
Environmental Protection Group, Beijing 100096, China.
(4)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Yancheng Institute of 
Technology, Yancheng 224051, China.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, 
United States.

The biodegradation of polypropylene (PP), a highly persistent nonhydrolyzable 
polymer, by Tenebrio molitor has been confirmed using commercial PP 
microplastics (MPs) (Mn 26.59 and Mw 187.12 kDa). This confirmation was based on 
the reduction of the PP mass, change in molecular weight (MW), and a positive 
Δδ13C in the residual PP. A MW-dependent biodegradation mechanism was 
investigated using five high-purity PP MPs, classified into low (0.83 and 6.20 
kDa), medium (50.40 and 108.0 kDa), and high (575.0 kDa) MW categories to access 
the impact of MW on the depolymerization pattern and associated gene expression 
of gut bacteria and the larval host. The larvae can depolymerize/biodegrade PP 
polymers with high MW although the consumption rate and weight losses increased, 
and survival rates declined with increasing PP MW. This pattern is similar to 
observations with polystyrene (PS) and polyethylene (PE), i.e., both Mn and Mw 
decreased after being fed low MW PP, while Mn and/or Mw increased after high MW 
PP was fed. The gut microbiota exhibited specific bacteria associations, such as 
Kluyvera sp. and Pediococcus sp. for high MW PP degradation, Acinetobacter sp. 
for medium MW PP, and Bacillus sp. alongside three other bacteria for low MW PP 
metabolism. In the host transcriptome, digestive enzymes and plastic 
degradation-related bacterial enzymes were up-regulated after feeding on PP 
depending on different MWs. The T. molitor host exhibited both defensive 
function and degradation capability during the biodegradation of plastics, with 
high MW PP showing a relatively negative impact on the larvae.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.3c06954
PMID: 38563431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2024 Nov;196(11):7805-7815. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-024-04921-7. Epub 2024 Apr 1.

Stenotrophomonas maltophilia Isolated from the Gut Symbiotic Community of the 
Plastic-Eating Tenebrio molitor.

Ye S(#)(1)(2), Lu Y(#)(2)(3), Li G(#)(1)(2), Li D(#)(2)(4), Wu Y(4), Yao 
Y(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310027, China.
(2)ZJU-Hangzhou Global Scientific and Technological Innovation Center, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, 311215, China.
(3)School of Physical Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, 
201210, China.
(4)Hangzhou Qizhen Testing Co.Ltd., Hangzhou, 311215, China.
(5)College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310027, China. yyao1@zju.edu.cn.
(6)ZJU-Hangzhou Global Scientific and Technological Innovation Center, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, 311215, China. yyao1@zju.edu.cn.
(7)School of Physical Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, 
201210, China. yyao1@zju.edu.cn.
(8)Zhejiang Lab, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 311121, China. yyao1@zju.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) waste is a major environmental challenge. In this 
study, we found that a PVC-eating insect, Tenebrio molitor, could survive by 
consuming PVC as a dietary supplement. To understand the gut symbiotic 
community, metagenomic analysis was performed to reveal the biodiversity of a 
symbiotic community in the midgut of Tenebrio molitor. Among them, seven genera 
were enriched from the midgut of the insect under culture conditions with PVC as 
carbon source. A strain of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia was isolated from the 
midgut symbiotic community of the plastic-eating Tenebrio molitor. To unravel 
the functional gene for the biodegradation enzyme, we sequenced the whole genome 
of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and found that orf00390, annotated as a 
hydrolase, was highly expressed in the PVC culture niche.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-024-04921-7
PMID: 38558277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to Participate: The authors give the consent for participation. Consent 
for Publication: The authors give the consent for publication. Competing 
Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


43. Chemosphere. 2024 Mar;352:141499. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2024.141499. Epub 
2024 Feb 17.

Differences in ingestion and biodegradation of the melamine formaldehyde plastic 
by yellow mealworms Tenebrio molitor and superworms Zophobas atratus, and the 
prediction of functional gut microbes.

Li X(1), Wang Y(1), Sun H(1), Wang Y(1), Han X(1), Yu J(2), Zhao X(3), Liu B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, School of Resources and Civil 
Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang, 110819, PR China.
(2)College of Ecology and Environment, Inner Mongolia University, Huhhot, 
010021, PR China.
(3)Department of Environmental Engineering, School of Resources and Civil 
Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang, 110819, PR China. Electronic 
address: zhaoxin@mail.neu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, China Medical University, 
Shenyang, 110122, PR China. Electronic address: bqliu@cmu.edu.cn.

Plastics biodegradation by insect larvae is considered as a new strategy for 
plastic wastes treatment. To uncover the biodegradation of a more complex 
chemical polymer of melamine formaldehyde (MF) by insect larvae, two worm 
species of yellow mealworm Tenebrio molitor and superworm Zophobas atratus were 
fed on MF foam as sole diet for 45 days with sole bran diet as control. Although 
the MF foam consumption by yellow mealworms of 0.38 mg/d/g-larvae was almost 40% 
higher than that by superworms of 0.28 mg/d/g-larvae, a similar decrease of 
survival rates in both species were obtained at about 58%, indicating the 
adverse effects on their growth. Depolymerization and biodegradation of MF foam 
occurred in both larval guts, but was more extensive in yellow mealworms. MF 
foam sole diet influenced gut bacterial and fungal microbiomes of both larvae 
species, which were assessed by Illumina MiSeq on day 45. Compared to the 
bran-fed group, both gut bacterial and fungal communities significantly changed 
in MF-fed groups, but differed in the two larvae species. The results 
demonstrated a strong association between the distinctive gut microbiome and MF 
foam degradation, such as unclassified Enterobacteriaceae, Hyphopichia and 
Issatchenkia. However, sole MF foam diet negatively influenced worms, like lower 
survival rates and gut abnormalities. In summary, MF foam could be degraded by 
both yellow mealworms and superworms, albeit with adverse effects. Gut microbes 
were strongly associated to MF foam degradation, especially the gut fungi.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2024.141499
PMID: 38373446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


44. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Mar 1;272:116046. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.116046. Epub 2024 Feb 2.

Analysis of the gut microbiome associated to PVC biodegradation in yellow 
mealworms.

Xu J(1), Dong Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Jiangxi Modern Institute of Vocational Technology, Nan Chang 330095, China. 
Electronic address: newwebmen@163.com.
(2)College of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Nanchang Hangkong 
University, Key Laboratory of Jiangxi Province for Persistant Pollutants, Nan 
Chang 330063, China.

The potential of invertebrates in the biodegradation of plastic polymers such as 
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) is receiving increasing attention. The present study is 
aimed to identify the gut microbiome involved in this degradation in yellow 
mealworms, i.e., the larvae of Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus. The egested PVC 
polymer experienced a dramatic reduction in both number average molecular weight 
(Mn) and weight average molecular weight (Mw) of 99.3% and 99.6%, respectively, 
whereas FTIR analysis revealed chemical alterations. Mass spectrometry analysis 
identified two potential degradation products: phthalic acid, di(2-propylpentyl) 
ester and 2-Propenoic acid, tridecyl ester. Further, we used metagenomic 
sequencing to elucidate the response of the gut microbiome when transitioning 
from bran to PVC as a food source, identifying four microorganisms actively 
involved in PVC degradation. Additionally, metagenomic functional analysis of 
the gut microbiome identified 111 key gene modules that were significantly 
enriched. In summary, our findings suggest that yellow mealworms adapt to PVC 
degradation by modifying their gut microbiome both structurally and 
functionally.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.116046
PMID: 38309231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


45. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Mar 5;465:133446. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.133446. Epub 
2024 Jan 6.

Biodegradation of polyethylene terephthalate by Tenebrio molitor: Insights for 
polymer chain size, gut metabolome and host genes.

He L(1), Yang SS(2), Ding J(3), Chen CX(3), Yang F(4), He ZL(5), Pang JW(6), 
Peng BY(7), Zhang Y(7), Xing DF(3), Ren NQ(3), Wu WM(8).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Urban Pollutant Conversion, Department of Environmental 
Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 
230026, China; State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, 
School of Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic 
address: shanshanyang@hit.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 
150090, China.
(5)Southern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory (Zhuhai), Zhuhai 
519080, China.
(6)China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group, Beijing 100089, 
China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China.
(8)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. 
Electronic address: billwu@stanford.edu.

Polyethylene terephthalate (PET or polyester) is a commonly used plastic and 
also contributes to the majority of plastic wastes. Mealworms (Tenebrio molitor 
larvae) are capable of biodegrading major plastic polymers but their degrading 
ability for PET has not been characterized based on polymer chain size molecular 
size, gut microbiome, metabolome and transcriptome. We verified biodegradation 
of commercial PET by T. molitor larvae in a previous report. Here, we reported 
that biodegradation of commercial PET (Mw 29.43 kDa) was further confirmed by 
using the δ13C signature as an indication of bioreaction, which was increased 
from - 27.50‰ to - 26.05‰. Under antibiotic suppression of gut microbes, the PET 
was still depolymerized, indicating that the host digestive enzymes could 
degrade PET independently. Biodegradation of high purity PET with low, medium, 
and high molecular weights (MW), i.e., Mw values of 1.10, 27.10, and 63.50 kDa 
with crystallinity 53.66%, 33.43%, and 4.25%, respectively, showed a mass 
reduction of > 95%, 86%, and 74% via broad depolymerization. Microbiome analyses 
indicated that PET diets shifted gut microbiota to three distinct structures, 
depending on the low, medium, and high MW. Metagenome sequencing, 
transcriptomic, and metabolic analyses indicated symbiotic biodegradation of PET 
by the host and gut microbiota. After PET was fed, the host's genes encoding 
degradation enzymes were upregulated, including genes encoding oxidizing, 
hydrolyzing, and non-specific CYP450 enzymes. Gut bacterial genes for 
biodegrading intermediates and nitrogen fixation also upregulated. The 
multiple-functional metabolic pathways for PET biodegradation ensured rapid 
biodegradation resulting in a half-life of PET less than 4 h with less negative 
impact by PET MW and crystallinity.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.133446
PMID: 38219578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


46. Arch Microbiol. 2023 Dec 30;206(1):48. doi: 10.1007/s00203-023-03785-5.

Characterization of Priestia megaterium S1, a polymer degrading gut microbe 
isolated from the gut of Tenebrio molitor larvae fed on Styrofoam.

Akash K(1), Parthasarathi R(2)(3), Elango R(1), Bragadeeswaran S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai University, 
Annamalai Nagar, Chidambaram, Tamilnadu, 608002, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai University, 
Annamalai Nagar, Chidambaram, Tamilnadu, 608002, India. parthasangi@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Anbil Dharmalingam 
Agricultural College and Research Institute, Trichy, Tamilnadu, 620027, India. 
parthasangi@yahoo.com.
(4)Centre for Advanced Study in Marine Biology, Faculty of Marine Sciences, 
Annamalai University, Parangipettai, Tamilnadu, 608505, India.

This study reveals that Tenebrio molitor larvae are fed with two different feeds 
i.e., barley bran along with Styrofoam, and barley bran without Styrofoam, the 
survival percentage of mealworms shows 86 and 89%, respectively. Five isolates 
namely S1, S2, S3, S4, and S5 were isolated from the gut of Styrofoam-feeding 
Tenebrio molitor larvae and tested for Hydrophobicity percentage, clear zone 
assay and turbidity measurement. S1 isolate showed best (turbidity percentage of 
19.65%, 13.54% hydrophobicity percentage, and 37% zone of clearance) when 
compared to other isolates, respectively. 16S rRNA characterization of S1 
isolate revealed that the isolate belongs to Priestia megaterium S1(ON024787). 
Biodegradation of PE and PS beads by Priestia megaterium S1 makes physical and 
structural changes over 180 days, after microbial adhesion to the beads. Growth 
parameters have shown that the Priestia megaterium S1 thrives more effectively 
in the pH (6.5), temperature (28 °C) and at 1.5% LDPE/HDPE/PS concentration 
there is maximum utilization of carbon and a high percentage survival rate. 
Significant colonization of the isolate after 30 days over beads of LDPE 
(52.47%), HDPE (49.26%), and PS (48.11%), respectively. Experimental data 
revealed that Priestia megaterium S1 have PE and PS beads degradation capacity, 
proven by weight loss studies, at 6th-month percentage weight loss of LDPE 
(36.1%), HDPE (31.9%), and PS (28.6%), the percentage loss of carbon and 
hydrogen shows higher when compared to control. One month Biological Oxygen 
Demand (BOD) showed that LDPE (7.4 mg/l), HDPE (7.2 mg/l), PS (6.7 mg/l), and 
simultaneous studies on CO2 evolution over LDPE treatment is 5.05 g/l, HDPE 
(4.26 g/l), and PS (3.91 g/l), respectively. Fourier Transform Infrared 
Spectroscopy (FTIR) and Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) prove the occurrence 
of biodegradation on the surface of beads. This work highlights that Priestia 
megaterium S1 plays a vital role in effectively degrading PE and PS beads.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-023-03785-5
PMID: 38160211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Front Microbiol. 2023 Dec 5;14:1309806. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1309806. 
eCollection 2023.

Diversity and community composition of strictly anaerobic and culturable 
bacteria from the feces of Styrofoam-fed Tenebrio molitor larvae: a 
culturomics-based study.

Zhu J(1)(2), Chen X(1), Chen SC(1)(2), Qiu W(2), Yu J(1)(3), Guo T(1)(3), Wang 
X(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center for Soil Remediation and Restoration Technologies, College 
of Environment and Safety Engineering, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(2)School of Resources and Chemical Engineering, Sanming University, Sanming, 
Fujian, China.
(3)The Second Geological Exploration Institute, China Metallurgical Geology 
Bureau, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.

INTRODUCTION: In recent years, researchers have been exploring the 
plastic-degrading abilities of bacteria residing in the guts of Styrofoam-eating 
Tenebrio molitor larvae. However, none of the reported strains have displayed 
highly efficient plastic degradation capabilities, and it's noteworthy that none 
of the existing studies have focused on strictly anaerobic microbes.
METHODS: In this study, we exclusively fed Styrofoam to T. molitor larvae and 
examined how this dietary change influence the gut's bacterial community 
composition, as observed through fecal bacteria using bacterial 16S rRNA gene 
amplicon sequencing and the small-scale culturomics method with 20 types of 
anaerobic media under four different conditions.
RESULTS: The results revealed a significant shift in the dominant phylogroup 
from Lactococcus (37.8%) to Escherichia-Shigella (54.7%) when comparing the 
feces of larvae fed with bran and Styrofoam, as analyzing through the bacterial 
16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. For small-scale culturomics method, a total 
of 226 strains of anaerobic bacteria were isolated and purified using the 
rolling-tube/strictly anaerobic technique. Among them, 226 strains were 
classified into 3 phyla, 7 classes, 9 orders, 17 families, 29 genera, 42 known 
species and 34 potential novel species.
DISCUSSION: Interestingly, 24 genera in total, identified through the 
culturomics method, were not found in the results obtained from amplicon 
sequencing. Here, we present a collection of culturable anaerobic bacteria from 
the feces of T. molitor larvae, which might be a promising avenue for 
investigating the biodegradability of plastics by combining specific strains, 
either randomly or intentionally, while considering the abundance ratio of the 
microbial community composition.

Copyright © 2023 Zhu, Chen, Chen, Qiu, Yu, Guo and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1309806
PMCID: PMC10728288
PMID: 38116533

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


48. Sci Rep. 2023 Nov 2;13(1):18914. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-45978-4.

Effects of TmTak1 silencing on AMP production as an Imd pathway component in 
Tenebrio molitor.

Hwang SH(#)(1), Jang HA(#)(2)(3), Kojour MAM(1), Yun K(1), Lee YS(2)(3), Han 
YS(1), Jo YH(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Plant Biotechnology, Institute of Environmentally-Friendly 
Agriculture (IEFA), College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju, 61186, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biology, College of Natural Sciences, Soonchunhyang University, 
Asan, Chungnam, Republic of Korea.
(3)Korea Native Animal Resources Utilization Convergence Research Institute 
(KNAR), Soonchunhyang University, Asan, Chungnam, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Biology, College of Natural Sciences, Soonchunhyang University, 
Asan, Chungnam, Republic of Korea. yhun1228@sch.ac.kr.
(5)Korea Native Animal Resources Utilization Convergence Research Institute 
(KNAR), Soonchunhyang University, Asan, Chungnam, Republic of Korea. 
yhun1228@sch.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Mealworms beetles, Tenebrio molitor, are the limelight next-generation food for 
humans due to their high nutrient contents. Since Tenebrio molitor is used as 
feed for pets and livestock in addition to their ability to decompose 
polystyrene and plastic waste, it is recognized as an insect with an industrial 
core value. Therefore, it is important to study the immune mechanism related to 
the development and infection of mealworms for mass breeding purposes. The 
immune deficiency (Imd) signaling is one of the main pathways with pivotal roles 
in the production of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs). Transforming growth factor-β 
activated kinase (TAK1) is one of the Imd pathway components, forms a complex 
with TAK1 binding protein 2 (TAB2) to ultimately help activate the transcription 
factor Relish and eventually induce host to produce AMPs. Relatively, little has 
been revealed about TAK1 in insect models, especially in the T. molitor. 
Therefore, this study was conducted to elucidate the function of TmTak1 in T. 
molitor. Our results showed that the highest and lowest mRNA expression of 
TmTak1 were found in egg and young larvae respectively. The tissue-specific 
expression patterns were reported in the gut of T. molitor larvae and the fat 
bodies of adults. Systemic microbial challenge illustrated TmTak1 high 
expression following the fungal infection in all dissected tissues except for 
the whole body. However, silencing TmTak1 experiments showed that the 
survivability of T. molitor larvae affected significantly following Escherichia 
coli infection. Accordingly, AMP induction after TmTak1 knock down was mainly 
reported in the integument and the fat bodies.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-45978-4
PMCID: PMC10622451
PMID: 37919359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


49. Environ Sci Technol. 2023 Oct 10;57(40):15099-15111. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.3c04406. Epub 2023 Sep 26.

Unveiling Fragmentation of Plastic Particles during Biodegradation of 
Polystyrene and Polyethylene Foams in Mealworms: Highly Sensitive Detection and 
Digestive Modeling Prediction.

Peng BY(1), Xiao S(1), Sun Y(1), Liu Y(2), Chen J(1), Zhou X(1), Wu WM(3), Zhang 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Smart Manufacturing in Energy Chemical Process, Ministry of 
Education, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, 
China.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305-4020, 
United States.

It remains unknown whether plastic-biodegrading macroinvertebrates generate 
microplastics (MPs) and nanoplastics (NPs) during the biodegradation of 
plastics. In this study, we utilized highly sensitive particle analyzers and 
pyrolyzer-gas chromatography mass spectrometry (Py-GCMS) to investigate the 
possibility of generating MPs and NPs in frass during the biodegradation of 
polystyrene (PS) and low-density polyethylene (LDPE) foams by mealworms 
(Tenebrio molitor larvae). We also developed a digestive biofragmentation model 
to predict and unveil the fragmentation process of ingested plastics. The 
mealworms removed 77.3% of ingested PS and 71.1% of ingested PE over a 6-week 
test period. Biodegradation of both polymers was verified by the increase in the 
δ13C signature of residual plastics, changes in molecular weights, and the 
formation of new oxidative functional groups. MPs accumulated in the frass due 
to biofragmentation, with residual PS and PE exhibiting the maximum percentage 
by number at 2.75 and 7.27 μm, respectively. Nevertheless, NPs were not detected 
using a laser light scattering sizer with a detection limit of 10 nm and Py-GCMS 
analysis. The digestive biofragmentation model predicted that the ingested PS 
and PE were progressively size-reduced and rapidly biodegraded, indicating the 
shorter half-life the smaller plastic particles have. This study allayed 
concerns regarding the accumulation of NPs by plastic-degrading mealworms and 
provided critical insights into the factors controlling MP and NP generation 
during macroinvertebrate-mediated plastic biodegradation.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.3c04406
PMID: 37751481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Sci Total Environ. 2023 Dec 15;904:166808. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.166808. 
Epub 2023 Sep 7.

Ingestion and biodegradation of disposable surgical masks by yellow mealworms 
Tenebrio molitor larvae: Differences in mask layers and effects on the larval 
gut microbiome.

Wang J(1), Zhang C(1), Zhao X(2), Weng Y(1), Nan X(3), Han X(1), Li C(4), Liu 
B(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Resources and Civil Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang 
110819, China.
(2)School of Resources and Civil Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang 
110819, China. Electronic address: zhaoxin@mail.neu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, China Medical University, 
Shenyang 110122, China.
(4)College of Medicine and Biological Information Engineering, Northeastern 
University, Shenyang 110169, China.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the usage and production of face masks 
considerably increased, resulting in large quantities of mask waste accumulating 
in the natural environment. To investigate whether masks of polypropylene (PP) 
material could be ingested and degraded by insect worms like PP foam plastic, 
yellow mealworms were provided with different layers of disposable surgical 
masks as sole diets for 30 d. Although mask layers, especially the middle layer 
of melt-blown filter, could be ingested by yellow mealworms, sole mask layer 
diets had adverse effects on the larval survival and growth. Analyses of Fourier 
transform infrared spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimeter and 
thermogravimetric, and gel permeation chromatography demonstrated the changes of 
functional groups, thermostability and molecular weights in frass compared to 
original masks, indicating the partial oxidation and degradation of masks. And 
the depolymerization of the middle layer of masks by yellow mealworms was 
different from that of other layers. The larval gut bacterial and fungal 
microbiomes were assessed by Illumina MiSeq, indicating that both of them 
shifted upon sole layer mask diets. Changes in relative abundances of dominant 
bacterial and fungal genera demonstrated the strong association between gut 
microbiome and mask degradation. For instance, unclassified Enterobacteriaceae 
was closely associated with outer layers degradation. Lactococcus and 
unclassified Ascomycota were responsible for middle layers degradation, while 
Lactococcus and Morganella for inner layers degradation. In conclusion, 
disposable surgical masks of PP material could be ingested and biodegraded by 
yellow mealworms. The diversities of gut bacterial and fungal microbiomes were 
associated with the differences in rigid crystalline structures of the layer 
masks.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.166808
PMID: 37683868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


51. J Environ Manage. 2023 Nov 1;345:118818. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2023.118818. 
Epub 2023 Aug 24.

Biodegradation of polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, and polylactic acid 
microplastics in Tenebrio molitor larvae: Physiological responses.

Peng BY(1), Sun Y(1), Li P(2), Yu S(3), Xu Y(4), Chen J(1), Zhou X(1), Wu WM(5), 
Zhang Y(6).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai, 200092, 
China.
(2)Clinical and Translational Research Center of Shanghai First Maternity and 
Infant Hospital, School of Life Sciences and Technology, Tongji University, 
Shanghai, 200092, China.
(3)Research Center for Translational Medicine at Shanghai East Hospital, School 
of Life Sciences and Technology, Tongji University, Shanghai, 200092, China.
(4)National Engineering Research Center of Protected Agriculture, Shanghai 
Engineering Research Center of Protected Agriculture, Tongji University, 
Shanghai, 200092, China.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305-4020, United 
States. Electronic address: Billwu@stanford.edu.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai, 200092, 
China; National Engineering Research Center of Protected Agriculture, Shanghai 
Engineering Research Center of Protected Agriculture, Tongji University, 
Shanghai, 200092, China. Electronic address: Zhangyalei@tongji.edu.cn.

It is widely understood that microplastics (MPs) can induce various biological 
stresses in macroinvertebrates that are incapable of biodegrading plastics. 
However, the biodegradation and physiological responses of plastic-degrading 
macroinvertebrates toward MPs of different degradability levels remain 
unexplored. In this study, Tenebrio molitor larvae (mealworms) were selected as 
a model of plastics-degrading macroinvertebrate, and were tested against three 
common plastics of different degradability rankings: polyvinyl chloride (PVC), 
polystyrene (PS), and polylactic acid (PLA) MPs (size <300 μm). These three MPs 
were biodegraded with the rate sequence of PLA > PS > PVC, resulting in a 
reversed order of negative physiological responses (body weight loss, decreased 
survival, and biomass depletion) of mealworms. Simultaneously, the levels of 
reactive oxygen species (ROS), antioxidant enzyme activities, and lipid 
peroxidation were uniformly increased as polymer degradability decreased and 
intermediate toxicity increased. PVC MPs exhibited higher toxicity than the 
other two polymers. The oxidative stresses were effectively alleviated by 
supplementing co-diet bran. The T. molitor larvae fed with PLA plus bran showed 
sustainable growth without an increase in oxidative stress. The results provide 
new insights into the biotoxicity of MPs on macroinvertebrates and offer 
comprehensive information on the physiological stress responses of 
plastic-degrading macroinvertebrates during the biodegradation of plastics with 
different degradability levels.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2023.118818
PMID: 37633102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


52. Toxins (Basel). 2023 Jun 30;15(7):429. doi: 10.3390/toxins15070429.

Intersexual Differences in the Gene Expression of Phoneutria depilata (Araneae, 
Ctenidae) Toxins Revealed by Venom Gland Transcriptome Analyses.

Ramírez DS(1), Alzate JF(2), Simone Y(3), van der Meijden A(3), Guevara G(4), 
Franco Pérez LM(5), González-Gómez JC(1), Prada Quiroga CF(1).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación Biología y Ecología de Artrópodos (BEA), Facultad de 
Ciencias, Universidad del Tolima, Altos de Santa Helena, Ibagué 730001, 
Colombia.
(2)Centro Nacional de Secuenciación Genómica (CNSG), Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín 050010, Colombia.
(3)CIBIO/InBIO/Biopolis, Campus Agrário de Vairão, Rua Padre Armando Quintas 7, 
4485-661 Vila do Conde, Portugal.
(4)Grupo de Investigación en Zoología (GIZ), Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad 
del Tolima, Altos de Santa Helena, Ibagué 730001, Colombia.
(5)Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Matemáticas, Universidad de Ibagué, Carrera 
22 Calle 67, Ibagué 730001, Colombia.

The wandering spider, Phoneutria depilata, is one of Colombia's most active 
nocturnal arthropod predators of vertebrates and invertebrates. Its venom has 
been a relevant subject of study in the last two decades. However, the scarcity 
of transcriptomic data for the species limits our knowledge of the distinct 
components present in its venom for linking the mainly neurotoxic effects of the 
spider venom to a particular molecular target. The transcriptome of the P. 
depilata venom gland was analyzed to understand the effect of different diets or 
sex and the impact of these variables on the composition of the venom. We 
sequenced venom glands obtained from ten males and ten females from three diet 
treatments: (i) invertebrate: Tenebrio molitor, (ii) vertebrate: Hemidactylus 
frenatus, and (iii) mixed (T. molitor + H. frenatus). Of 17,354 assembled 
transcripts from all samples, 65 transcripts relating to venom production 
differed between males and females. Among them, 36 were classified as 
neurotoxins, 14 as serine endopeptidases, 11 as other proteins related to venom 
production, three as metalloprotease toxins, and one as a venom potentiator. 
There were no differences in transcripts across the analyzed diets, but when 
considering the effect of diets on differences between the sexes, 59 transcripts 
were differentially expressed. Our findings provide essential information on 
toxins differentially expressed that can be related to sex and the plasticity of 
the diet of P. depilata and thus can be used as a reference for venomics of 
other wandering spider species.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins15070429
PMCID: PMC10467060
PMID: 37505698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no conflict of interest, 
including any financial, personal, or other relationship with other people or 
organization.


53. J Hazard Mater. 2023 Oct 5;459:132045. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.132045. Epub 
2023 Jul 19.

Polystyrene microplastics biodegradation by gut bacterial Enterobacter 
hormaechei from mealworms under anaerobic conditions: Anaerobic oxidation and 
depolymerization.

Kang MG(1), Kwak MJ(1), Kim Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology and Research Institute of 
Agriculture and Life Science, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology and Research Institute of 
Agriculture and Life Science, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Republic 
of Korea. Electronic address: ykeys2584@snu.ac.kr.

Synthetic plastic is used throughout daily life and industry, threatening 
organisms with microplastic pollution. Polystyrene is a major plastic polymer 
and also widely found sources of plastic wastes and microplastics. Here, we 
report that Enterobacter hormaechei LG3 (CP118279.1), a facultative anaerobic 
bacterial strain isolated from the gut of Tenebrio molitor larvae (mealworms) 
can oxidize and depolymerize polystyrene under anaerobic conditions. LG3 
performed biodegradation while forming a biofilm on the plastic surface. PS 
biodegradation was characterized by analyses of surface oxidation, change in 
morphology and molecular weights, and production of biodegraded derivative. The 
biodegradation performance by LG3 was compared with PS biodegradation by 
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens SCGB1 under both anaerobic and aerobic conditions. In 
addition, through nanopore sequencing technology, we identified degradative 
enzymes, including thiol peroxidase (tpx), alkyl hydroperoxide reductase C 
(ahpC) and bacterioferritin comigratory protein (bcp). Along with the 
upregulation of degradative enzymes for biodegradation, changes in lipid A and 
biofilm-associated proteins were also observed after the cells were incubated 
with polystyrene microplastics. Our results provide evidence for anaerobic 
biodegradation by polystyrene-degrading bacteria and show alterations in gene 
expression patterns after polystyrene microplastics treatment in the 
opportunistic pathogen Enterobacter hormaechei.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.132045
PMID: 37480606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


54. Heliyon. 2023 Jun 20;9(6):e17352. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e17352. 
eCollection 2023 Jun.

Biodegradation of polystyrene by intestinal symbiotic bacteria isolated from 
mealworms, the larvae of Tenebrio molitor.

Park JW(1), Kim M(1), Kim SY(1), Bae J(1), Kim TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forest Products and Biotechnology, College of Science and 
Technology, Kookmin University, 77 Jeongneung-ro, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 02707, 
Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Polystyrene is a plastic that leads to environmental pollution. In 
particular, expanded polystyrene is very light and takes up much space, causing 
additional environmental problems. The aim of this study was to isolate new 
symbiotic bacteria which degraded polystyrene from mealworms.
METHODS: The population of polystyrene degrading bacteria was increased by 
enrichment culture of intestinal bacteria from mealworms with polystyrene as a 
sole carbon source. The degradation activity of isolated bacteria was evaluated 
by morphological change of micro-polystyrene particles and the surface change of 
polystyrene films.
RESULTS: Eight isolated species (Acinetobacter septicus, Agrobacterium 
tumefaciens, Klebsiella grimontii, Pseudomonas multiresinivorans, Pseudomonas 
nitroreducens, Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, Serratia marcescens, and Yokenella 
regensburgei) were identified that degrade polystyrene.
CONCLUSION: Bacterial identification shows that a broad spectrum of bacteria 
decomposing polystyrene coexists in the intestinal tract of mealworms.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e17352
PMCID: PMC10329137
PMID: 37426801

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.The 
authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


55. Front Biosci (Elite Ed). 2023 May 5;15(2):11. doi: 10.31083/j.fbe1502011.

Ingestion of Nylon 11 Polymers by the Mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) Beetle and 
Subsequent Enrichment of Monomer-Metabolizing Bacteria in Fecal Microbiome.

Leicht A(1), Masuda H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Sciences, Indiana University Kokomo, Kokomo, IN 46902, USA.

BACKGROUND: Nylon 11 is a synthetic plastic widely used in commercial products 
such as tubing for automobiles, offshore oilfields, and medical devices. An 
increasing amount of nylon and other plastic wastes have been released into 
various environments, posing ecological threats. The biodegradation of bundled 
nylon polymers has been considered impossible due to their crystalline 
structures.
METHODS: Nylon 11 film was created and incubated with adult mealworms. The mass, 
as well as structures, of nylon 11 films at pre- and post-incubation with 
beetles were compared. The number of nylon 11 monomer degrading bacteria in 
feces were determined by culture-dependent approach. The t-test was utilized to 
examine the statistical significance.
RESULTS: We discovered that adult mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) beetle can ingest 
nylon 11 when stretched thin. The microscopic observation of their feces did not 
identify the presence of large fragments of nylon 11. The analysis of fecal 
bacteria revealed that while the total number of culturable bacteria did not 
change significantly, the number of 11-aminoundecanoic acid-metabolizing 
bacteria increased by 10,000-fold.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that bundled nylon 11 polymers were fragmented 
into smaller pieces, including monomeric units (11-aminoundecanoic acid) by 
adult mealworm. The monomers seem to have supported the proliferation of gut 
microbial communities capable of utilizing 11-aminoundecanoic acid as a carbon 
and nitrogen source. Our work implies the potential use of the mealworm beetle 
as a means to fragment nylon polymers for remediation applications.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.fbe1502011
PMID: 37369567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


56. Sci Total Environ. 2023 Sep 20;892:164721. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.164721. 
Epub 2023 Jun 8.

Biodegradation of additive-free polypropylene by bacterial consortia enriched 
from the ocean and from the gut of Tenebrio molitor larvae.

Xian ZN(1), Yin CF(1), Zheng L(2), Zhou NY(1), Xu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, and School of Life Sciences & 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 20040, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Marine Eco-Environmental Science and Technology, First 
Institute of Oceanography, Ministry of Natural Resources, Qingdao 266061, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, and School of Life Sciences & 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 20040, China. Electronic 
address: ying.xu@sjtu.edu.cn.

Accumulation of highly recalcitrant PP wastes has caused a serious environmental 
pollution. We evaluated the biodegradation of two types of additive-free PP 
polymers by microbial degraders from different environments. Two bacterial 
consortia, designated as PP1M and PP2G, were enriched from the ocean and from 
the guts of Tenebrio molitor larvae. Both consortia were able to utilize each of 
two different additive-free PP plastics with relatively low molecular weights 
(low molecular weight PP powder and amorphous PP pellets) as the sole carbon 
source for growth. After a 30-day incubation, several plastic characterization 
methods, including high-temperature gel permeation chromatography, scanning 
electron microscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and differential 
scanning calorimetry, were used to characterize the PP samples. The bio-treated 
PP powder was covered with tight biofilms and extracellular secretions with 
significantly increased hydroxyl and carbonyl groups and slightly decreased 
methyl groups. This suggested that degradation and oxidation had occurred. The 
altered molecular weights and the increased melting enthalpy and average 
crystallinity of the bio-treated PP samples all suggested that both consortia 
preferred to depolymerize and degrade the fractions with molecular weights of 
≤34 kDa and the amorphous phase fractions of the two types of PP. Furthermore, 
low molecular weight PP powder was more susceptible to bacterial degradation 
compared to amorphous PP pellets. This study provides a unique example of 
different types of additive-free PP degradation by different culturable bacteria 
from the ocean and insect guts as well as a feasibility of PP waste removal in 
different environments.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.164721
PMID: 37301383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


57. J Hazard Mater. 2023 Sep 5;457:131759. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.131759. Epub 
2023 Jun 2.

Responses of gut microbiomes to commercial polyester polymer biodegradation in 
Tenebrio molitor Larvae.

He L(1), Yang SS(2), Ding J(1), He ZL(3), Pang JW(4), Xing DF(1), Zhao L(1), 
Zheng HS(5), Ren NQ(6), Wu WM(7).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic 
address: shanshanyang@hit.edu.cn.
(3)Southern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory (Zhuhai), Zhuhai 
519080, China.
(4)China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group, CECEP Talroad 
Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing 100096, China.
(5)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Qiqihar University, Qiqihar 
161006, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China; School of 
Civil and Environmental Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology (Shenzhen), 
Shenzhen, Guangdong 518055, China.
(7)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. 
Electronic address: billwu@stanford.edu.

Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) is a mass-produced fossil-based plastic polymer 
that contributes to catastrophic levels of plastic pollution. Here we 
demonstrated that Tenebrio molitor (mealworms) was capable of rapidly 
biodegrading two commercial PET resins (microplastics) with respective 
weight-average molecular weight (Mw) of 39.33 and 29.43 kDa and crystallinity of 
22.8 ± 3.06% and 18 ± 2.25%, resulting in an average mass reduction of 71.03% 
and 73.28% after passage of their digestive tract, and respective decrease by 
9.22% and 11.36% in Mw of residual PET polymer in egested frass. Sequencing of 
16 S rRNA gene amplicons of gut microbial communities showed that dominant 
bacterial genera were enriched and associated with PET degradation. Also, 
PICRUSt prediction exhibited that oxidases (monooxygenases and dioxygenases), 
hydrolases (cutinase, carboxylesterase and chitinase), and PET metabolic 
enzymes, and chemotaxis related functions were up-regulated in the PET-fed 
larvae. Additionally, metabolite analyses revealed that PET uptake caused 
alterations of stress response and plastic degradation related pathways, and 
lipid metabolism pathways in the T. molitor larvae could be reprogrammed when 
the larvae fed on PET. This study provides new insights into gut microbial 
community adaptation to PET diet under nutritional stress (especially nitrogen 
deficiency) and its contribution to PET degradation.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.131759
PMID: 37276692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


58. Insects. 2023 May 11;14(5):452. doi: 10.3390/insects14050452.

Five Surfaces Treated with d-Tetramethrin plus Acetamiprid for the Management of 
Tenebrio molitor and Alphitobius diaperinus: Which Is the Best?

Kavallieratos NG(1), Nika EP(1), Gounari PD(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Agricultural Zoology and Entomology, Department of Crop 
Science, Agricultural University of Athens, 75 Iera Odos Str., 11855 Athens, 
Greece.

Tenebrio molitor L. (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) and Alphitobius diaperinus 
Panzer (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) are two common tenebrionids occurring in 
grain storages. In this study, we assessed the immediate and delayed mortalities 
caused by d-tetramethrin plus acetamiprid on five different surfaces, i.e., 
plastic, glass, metal, wood, and ceramic, against adults of the two species. The 
tests included two label doses of the insecticide (minimum and maximum) and two 
food scenarios (food and no food). Generally, the maximum dose was more 
efficient than the minimum dose, and the presence of food resulted in lower 
observed mortalities than when food was absent. Tenebrio molitor was more 
susceptible than A. diaperinus, at all dose, food, and surface scenarios. At 
delayed bioassays, both doses killed all T. molitor on plastic, while on wood, 
mortality ranged between 80.6 and 100.0%, regardless of the food scenario. 
Concerning A. diaperinus, delayed mortalities ranged among treated surfaces, 
food scenarios, and dose from 58.3 to 100.0%. The insecticide killed the most 
individuals when it was treated on glass, while when it was applied on wood 
caused the death of the least individuals. Concerning plastic, metal, and 
ceramic surfaces, no general trend was observed. The maximum dose of the tested 
insecticide provides elevated mortalities for both species when food is absent.

DOI: 10.3390/insects14050452
PMCID: PMC10231049
PMID: 37233080

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


59. Microbiome. 2023 May 5;11(1):98. doi: 10.1186/s40168-023-01550-w.

Gut microbiome of mealworms (Tenebrio molitor Larvae) show similar responses to 
polystyrene and corn straw diets.

Mamtimin T(1), Han H(2)(3), Khan A(1), Feng P(1), Zhang Q(1), Ma X(1), Fang 
Y(4), Liu P(1), Kulshrestha S(5), Shigaki T(6), Li X(7).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cell Activities and Stress 
Adaptations, School of Life Science, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.
(2)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cell Activities and Stress 
Adaptations, School of Life Science, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China. 
hanhw@lzu.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-Ecosystems, Center for Grassland 
Microbiome, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China. hanhw@lzu.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Faculty of Applied Sciences and Biotechnology, Shoolini University, Solan, 
India.
(6)Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cell Activities and Stress 
Adaptations, School of Life Science, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China. 
xkli@lzu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Some insects can degrade both natural and synthetic plastic 
polymers, their host and gut microbes play crucial roles in this process. 
However, there is still a scientific gap in understanding how the insect adapted 
to the polystyrene (PS) diet from natural feed. In this study, we analyzed diet 
consumption, gut microbiota responses, and metabolic pathways of Tenebrio 
molitor larvae exposed to PS and corn straw (CS).
RESULTS: T. molitor larvae were incubated under controlled conditions 
(25 ± 1 °C, 75 ± 5% humidity) for 30 days by using PS foam with weight-, 
number-, and size-average molecular weight (Mw, Mn, and Mz) of 120.0, 73.2, and 
150.7 kDa as a diet, respectively. The larvae exhibited lower PS consumption 
(32.5%) than CS (52.0%), and these diets had no adverse effects on their 
survival. The gut microbiota structures, metabolic pathways, and enzymatic 
profiles of PS- and CS-fed larvae showed similar responses. The gut microbiota 
of larvae analysis indicated Serratia sp., Staphylococcus sp., and Rhodococcus 
sp. were associated with both PS and CS diets. Metatranscriptomic analysis 
revealed that xenobiotics, aromatic compounds, and fatty acid degradation 
pathways were enriched in PS- and CS-fed groups; laccase-like multicopper 
oxidases, cytochrome P450, monooxygenase, superoxidase, and dehydrogenase were 
involved in lignin and PS degradation. Furthermore, the upregulated gene lac640 
in both PS- and CS-fed groups was overexpressed in E. coli and exhibited PS and 
lignin degradation ability.
CONCLUSIONS: The high similarity of gut microbiomes adapted to biodegradation of 
PS and CS indicated the plastics-degrading ability of the T. molitor larvae 
originated through an ancient mechanism that degrades the natural 
lignocellulose. Video Abstract.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-023-01550-w
PMCID: PMC10161430
PMID: 37147715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest associated with the publication of this paper.


60. Animals (Basel). 2023 Apr 18;13(8):1389. doi: 10.3390/ani13081389.

Effects of Yellow Mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) on Growth Performance, Hepatic 
Health and Digestibility in Juvenile Largemouth Bass (Micropterus salmoides).

Chen H(1)(2), Yu J(1)(2), Ran X(1)(2), Wu J(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(2), Tan B(3), Lin 
S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Fisheries, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Freshwater Fish Reproduction and Development (Ministry of 
Education), Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(3)College of Fisheries, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang 524088, China.

This study investigated the effects of yellow mealworm meal (TM) on growth 
performance, hepatic health and digestibility in juvenile largemouth bass 
(Micropterus salmoides). The fish were fed with the basic feed and the test feed 
(70% basic feed and 30% raw materials) containing Cr2O3, and feces were 
collected for digestibility determination. The fish were fed with five 
isonitrogenous (47% crude protein) and isolipidic (13% crude lipid) diets, in 
which fishmeal (FM) was replaced with 0% (TM0), 12% (TM12), 24% (TM24), 36% 
(TM36) and 48% (TM48) TM. The fish were reared in cylindrical plastic tanks in a 
recirculating aquaculture system for 11 weeks. The apparent digestibility 
coefficients (ADC), of dry matter, crude protein and crude lipid, in largemouth 
bass of TM were 74.66%, 91.03% and 90.91%, respectively. The ADC of total amino 
acid (TAA) of TM in largemouth bass was 92.89%, and the ADC of essential amino 
acid (EAA) in TM in largemouth bass was 93.86%. The final body weight (FBW), 
weight gain rate (WGR) and specific growth rate (SGR) in the TM24 group were 
significantly higher than those in other groups. Similarly, the highest mRNA 
expression levels of hepatic protein metabolism genes (pi3k, mtor, 4ebp2 and 
got) and antioxidant enzyme (glutathione peroxidase, Gpx; catalase, Cat) 
activities were observed in the TM24 group. Moreover, the expression levels of 
anti-inflammatory factors (il-10 and tgf) in liver were up-regulated and the 
expression levels of pro-inflammatory factors (il-8 and il-1β) in liver were 
down-regulated. Quadratic regression model analysis, based on weight gain rate 
(WGR) against dietary TM level, indicated that the optimum level of dietary TM 
replacing FM in largemouth bass diet was 19.52%. Appropriate replacement levels 
(less than 36%) of FM by TM in the diets can enhance the antioxidant capacity 
and immunity of largemouth bass. However, high levels of FM substitution with TM 
(more than 48%) in the feeds can damage the liver health and inhibit the growth 
of largemouth bass. Notably, largemouth bass has high ADC and high utilization 
of TM, which indicates that it is feasible to use TM as feed protein source for 
largemouth bass.

DOI: 10.3390/ani13081389
PMCID: PMC10135357
PMID: 37106952

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


61. J Hazard Mater. 2023 Jun 15;452:131326. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.131326. Epub 
2023 Mar 30.

Unveiling the residual plastics and produced toxicity during biodegradation of 
polyethylene (PE), polystyrene (PS), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) microplastics 
by mealworms (Larvae of Tenebrio molitor).

Peng BY(1), Sun Y(1), Zhang X(2), Sun J(1), Xu Y(3), Xiao S(1), Chen J(1), Zhou 
X(4), Zhang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China; Eco-environmental Protection Research Institute, Shanghai Academy of 
Agricultural Science, Shanghai 201403, China.
(3)National Engineering Research Center of Protected Agriculture, Shanghai 
Engineering Research Center of Protected Agriculture, Tongji University, 
Shanghai 200092, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China. Electronic address: zhouxuefei@tongji.edu.cn.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China. Electronic address: zhangyalei@tongji.edu.cn.

Evidence for plastic degradation by mealworms has been reported. However, little 
is known about the residual plastics derived from incomplete digestion during 
mealworm-mediated plastic biodegradation. We herein reveal the residual plastic 
particles and toxicity produced during mealworm-mediated biodegradation of the 
three most common microplastics, i.e., polyethylene (PE), polystyrene (PS), and 
polyvinyl chloride (PVC). All three microplastics are effectively depolymerized 
and biodegraded. We discover that the PVC-fed mealworms exhibit the lowest 
survival rate (81.3 ± 1.5%) and the highest body weight reduction (15.1 ± 1.1%) 
among the experimental groups by the end of the 24-day experiment. We also 
demonstrate that the residual PVC microplastic particles are more difficult to 
depurate and excrete for the mealworms compared to the residual PE and PS 
particles by using laser direct infrared spectrometry. The levels of oxidative 
stress responses, including reactive oxygen species, antioxidant enzyme 
activities, and lipid peroxidation, are also highest in the PVC-fed mealworms. 
Sub-micron microplastics and small microplastics are found in the frass of 
mealworms fed with PE, PS, and PVC, with the smallest particles detected at 
diameters of 5.0, 4.0, and 5.9 µm, respectively. Our findings provide insights 
into the residual microplastics and microplastic-induced stress responses in 
macroinvertebrates under micro(nano)plastics exposure.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.131326
PMID: 37027925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interests or personal relationships that could 
have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


62. G3 (Bethesda). 2023 Jun 1;13(6):jkad079. doi: 10.1093/g3journal/jkad079.

Whole genome assemblies of Zophobas morio and Tenebrio molitor.

Kaur S(1), Stinson SA(1), diCenzo GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Queen's University, 116 Barrie Street, Kingston, 
Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada.

Zophobas morio (=Zophobas atratus) and Tenebrio molitor are darkling beetles 
with industrial importance due to their use as feeder insects and their apparent 
ability to biodegrade plastics. High quality genome assemblies were recently 
reported for both species. Here, we report additional independent Z. morio and 
T. molitor genome assemblies generated from Nanopore and Illumina data. 
Following scaffolding against the published genomes, haploid assemblies of 462 
Mb (scaffold N90 of 16.8 Mb) and 258 Mb (scaffold N90 of 5.9 Mb) were produced 
for Z. morio and T. molitor, respectively. Gene prediction led to the prediction 
of 28,544 and 19,830 genes for Z. morio and T. molitor, respectively. 
Benchmarking Universal Single Copy Orthologs (BUSCO) analyses suggested that 
both assemblies have a high level of completeness; 91.5 and 89.0% of the BUSCO 
endopterygota marker genes were complete in the Z. morio assembly and proteome, 
respectively, while 99.1 and 92.8% were complete in the T. molitor assembly and 
proteome, respectively. Phylogenomic analyses of four genera from the family 
Tenebrionidae yielded phylogenies consistent with those previously constructed 
based on mitochondrial genomes. Synteny analyses revealed large stretches of 
macrosynteny across the family Tenebrionidae, as well as numerous 
within-chromosome rearrangements. Finally, orthogroup analysis identified 
∼28,000 gene families across the family Tenebrionidae, of which 8,185 were 
identified in all five of the analyzed species, and 10,837 were conserved 
between Z. morio and T. molitor. We expect that the availability of multiple 
whole genome sequences for Z. morio and T. molitor will facilitate population 
genetics studies to identify genetic variation associated with industrially 
relevant phenotypes.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Genetics Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/g3journal/jkad079
PMCID: PMC10234394
PMID: 37002914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest statement The author(s) 
declare no conflict of interest.


63. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Mar 5;15(5):1307. doi: 10.3390/polym15051307.

Recent Advances in Degradation of Polymer Plastics by Insects Inhabiting 
Microorganisms.

An R(1), Liu C(2), Wang J(1), Jia P(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Geographic and Biologic Information, Nanjing University of Posts 
and Telecommunications, Nanjing 210023, China.
(2)Institute of Chemical Industry of Forest Products, Chinese Academy of 
Forestry, 16 Suojin North Road, Nanjing 210042, China.

Plastic pollution endangers all natural ecosystems and living creatures on 
earth. Excessive reliance on plastic products and excessive production of 
plastic packaging are extremely dangerous for humans because plastic waste has 
polluted almost the entire world, whether it is in the sea or on the land. This 
review introduces the examination of pollution brought by non-degradable 
plastics, the classification and application of degradable materials, and the 
current situation and strategy to address plastic pollution and plastic 
degradation by insects, which mainly include Galleria mellonella, Zophobas 
atratus, Tenebrio molitor, and other insects. The efficiency of plastic 
degradation by insects, biodegradation mechanism of plastic waste, and the 
structure and composition of degradable products are reviewed. The development 
direction of degradable plastics in the future and plastic degradation by 
insects are prospected. This review provides effective ways to solve plastic 
pollution.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15051307
PMCID: PMC10007075
PMID: 36904548

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


64. Environ Sci Technol. 2023 Feb 28;57(8):3031-3041. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.2c05009. 
Epub 2023 Feb 15.

Gut Microbiome Associating with Carbon and Nitrogen Metabolism during 
Biodegradation of Polyethene in Tenebrio larvae with Crop Residues as Co-Diets.

Ding MQ(1), Yang SS(1), Ding J(1), Zhang ZR(2), Zhao YL(1), Dai W(1), Sun HJ(1), 
Zhao L(1), Xing D(1), Ren N(1), Wu WM(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(2)College of Wildlife and Protected Area, Northeast Forestry University, Harbin 
150040, China.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Chemistry, 
William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable 
Development & Global Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305, United States.

Tenebrio molitor and Tenebrio obscurus (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) larvae are 
two commercial insects that eat plant and crop residues as diets and also 
biodegrade synthetic plastics polyethylene (PE). We examined biodegradation of 
low-density PE (LDPE) foam (Mn = 28.9 kDa and Mw = 342.0 kDa) with and without 
respective co-diets, i.e., wheat brain (WB) or corn flour (CF), corn straw (CS), 
and rice straw (RS) at 4:1 (w/w), and their gut microbiome and genetic metabolic 
functional groups at 27.0 ± 0.5 °C after 28 days of incubation. The presence of 
co-diets enhanced LDPE consumption in both larvae and broad-depolymerized the 
ingested LDPE. The diet type shaped gut microbial diversity, potential pathways, 
and metabolic functions. The sequence of effectiveness of co-diets was WB or CF 
> CS > RS for larval development and LDPE degradation. Co-occurrence networks 
indicated that the larvae co-fed with LDPE displayed more complex correlations 
of gut microbiome than the larvae fed with single diets. The primary diet of WB 
or CF and crop residues CS and RS provided energy and nitrogen source to 
significantly enhance LDPE biodegradation with synergistic activities of the gut 
microbiota. For the larvae fed LDPE and LDPE plus co-diets, nitrogen fixation 
function was stimulated compared to normal diets and associated with LDPE 
biodegradation.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.2c05009
PMID: 36790312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Chemosphere. 2023 Mar;318:137944. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2023.137944. Epub 
2023 Jan 23.

Degradation of polyvinyl chloride by a bacterial consortium enriched from the 
gut of Tenebrio molitor larvae.

Xu Y(1), Xian ZN(1), Yue W(1), Yin CF(1), Zhou NY(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, and School of Life Sciences & 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, and School of Life Sciences & 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China. 
Electronic address: ningyi.zhou@sjtu.edu.cn.

Polyvinyl chloride (PVC), a carbon backbone synthetic plastic containing 
chlorine element, is one of six widely used plastics accounting for 10% global 
plastics production. PVC wastes are recalcitrant to be broken down in the 
environment but release harmful chlorinated compounds, causing damage to the 
ecosystem. Although biodegradation represents a sustainable approach for PVC 
reduction, virtually no efficient bacterial degraders for additive-free PVC have 
been reported. In addition, PVC depolymerization by Tenebrio molitor larvae was 
suggested to be gut microbe-dependent, but to date no additive-free PVC 
degraders have been isolated from insect guts. In this study, a bacterial 
consortium designated EF1 was newly enriched from the gut of Tenebrio molitor 
larvae, which was capable of utilizing additive-free PVC for its growth with the 
PVC-mass reduction and dechlorination of PVC. PVC films inoculated with 
consortium EF1 for 30 d were analyzed by diverse polymer characterization 
methods including atomic force microscopy, scanning electron microscope, water 
contact angle, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, Fourier transform 
infrared spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimetry, thermogravimetric 
analysis technique, and ion chromatography. It was found that bio-treated PVC 
films were covered with tight biofilms with increased -OH and -CC- groups and 
decreased chlorine contents, and erosions and cracks were present on their 
surfaces. Meanwhile, the hydrophilicity of bio-treated films increased, but 
their thermal stability declined. Furthermore, Mw, Mn and Mz values were reduced 
by 17.0%, 28.5% and 16.1% using gel permeation chromatography, respectively. In 
addition, three medium-chain aliphatic primary alcohols and their corresponding 
fatty acids were identified as PVC degradation intermediates by gas 
chromatography-mass spectrometry. Combing all above results, it is clear that 
consortium EF1 is capable of efficiently degrading PVC polymer, providing a 
unique example for PVC degradation by gut microbiota of insects and a 
feasibility for the removal of PVC wastes.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2023.137944
PMID: 36702410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


66. AIMS Microbiol. 2022 Dec 26;8(4):612-623. doi: 10.3934/microbiol.2022039. 
eCollection 2022.

Discovery of Nylon 11 ingestion by mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) larvae and 
detection of monomer-degrading bacteria in gut microbiota.

Leicht A(1), Gatz-Schrupp J(1), Masuda H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Sciences, Indiana University Kokomo, 2300 S Washington St., Kokomo, 
IN, USA.

Nylon 11, which can be found in many commercial products, is a synthetic plastic 
that has previously been considered non-biodegradable. Increasing nylon 11 and 
other plastics in landfills and in the environment pose an environmental 
concern. Recent studies on plastic biodegradation revealed that initial 
mechanical fragmentations increase the rate of degradation. In this study, we 
discovered that the larvae of mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) can masticate nylon 11 
film at the rate of 0.25 ± 0.07 mg per fifty larvae per day. The body mass of 
larvae did not differ from that of starvation control while feeding on nylon 11. 
Comparison of gut microbiota in nylon-fed and starving larvae showed a shift in 
composition. There was a significant variation in community composition among 
the nylon 11-fed experimental groups, suggesting that many organisms are capable 
of metabolizing nylon 11 fragments and/or possess a growth advantage in a 
nylon-fed gut environment. We also discovered that a significant fraction of gut 
microbiome of control larvae is capable of metabolizing nylon 11 monomer 
(11-aminoundecanoic acid) even in the absence of prior exposure to nylon 11. 
This is the first study demonstrating ingestion of nylon polymers by 
invertebrates, and our results suggest the potential of mealworm larvae for 
nylon 11 biodegradation applications.

© 2022 the Author(s), licensee AIMS Press.

DOI: 10.3934/microbiol.2022039
PMCID: PMC9834084
PMID: 36694582

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


67. Polymers (Basel). 2022 Dec 31;15(1):204. doi: 10.3390/polym15010204.

Polyurethane Foam Residue Biodegradation through the Tenebrio molitor Digestive 
Tract: Microbial Communities and Enzymatic Activity.

Orts JM(1), Parrado J(1), Pascual JA(2), Orts A(1), Cuartero J(2), Tejada M(3), 
Ros M(2).

Author information:
(1)Departament of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Facultad de Farmacia, 
Universidad de Sevilla, C/Prof. García Gonzalez 2, 41012 Sevilla, Spain.
(2)Department of Soil and Water Conservation and Organic Waste Management, 
Centro de Edafologia y Biología Aplicada del Segura (CEBAS-CSIC), University 
Campus of Espinardo, 30100 Murcia, Spain.
(3)Grupo de Investigacion Edafologia Ambiental, Departamento de Cristalografia, 
Mineralogia y Quimica Agricola, E.T.S.I.A. Universidad de Sevilla, 41004 
Sevilla, Spain.

Polyurethane (PU) is a widely used polymer with a highly complex recycling 
process due to its chemical structure. Eliminating polyurethane is limited to 
incineration or accumulation in landfills. Biodegradation by enzymes and 
microorganisms has been studied for decades as an effective method of biological 
decomposition. In this study, Tenebrio molitor larvae (T. molitor) were fed 
polyurethane foam. They degraded the polymer by 35% in 17 days, resulting in a 
14% weight loss in the mealworms. Changes in the T. molitor gut bacterial 
community and diversity were observed, which may be due to the colonization of 
the species associated with PU degradation. The physical and structural 
biodegradation of the PU, as achieved by T. molitor, was observed and compared 
to the characteristics of the original PU (PU-virgin) using Fourier Transform 
InfraRed spectroscopy (FTIR), Thermal Gravimetric Analysis (TGA), and Scanning 
Electron Microphotography (SEM).

DOI: 10.3390/polym15010204
PMCID: PMC9823465
PMID: 36616553

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


68. J Insect Sci. 2022 Nov 1;22(6):13. doi: 10.1093/jisesa/ieac075.

Inheritance of Two Traits With High Plasticity, Developmental Speed, and Body 
Size, in Tenebrio molitor (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae).

Morales-Ramos JA(1), Rojas MG(1), Tweedy D(2), Emery V(2), Kelstrup HC(2).

Author information:
(1)USDA-ARS, National Biological Control Laboratory, Biological Control of Pests 
Research Unit, Stoneville, MS 38776, USA.
(2)Beta Hatch Inc., 200 Titchenal Road, Cashmere, WA 98815, USA.

The study of inheritance of quantitative traits of high plasticity in insects 
has been limited. The heritability of larval development time and body weight in 
Tenebrio molitor L. was determined using the method of parent-offspring 
regression. The parental group of adults obtained from a cohort from one day of 
oviposition from a stock colony was divided into 28 class groups according to 
their larval development time and pupal weight. The progeny resulting from these 
parental classes was grouped in experimental units and allowed to develop to the 
pupal stage. Means of larval development time and pupal weight of the progeny 
were compared with their parental class levels using linear regression. The 
selection of larval development time and pupal weight in the parental classes 
had a significant impact on the means of larval development time and pupal 
weight of the progeny. The regression coefficients for larval development time 
and pupal weight were 0.626 ± 0.02 and 0.408 ± 0.02, respectively. These values 
represent the proportion of genetic determination of these two traits based on 
the principles of the method of parent-offspring regression. The apparent 
independence of larval development time and pupal weight based on their poor 
linear correlation is discussed.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Entomological Society of 
America 2022.

DOI: 10.1093/jisesa/ieac075
PMCID: PMC9795318
PMID: 36575953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2023 Mar;30(13):37118-37126. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-022-24957-8. Epub 2022 Dec 26.

Effect of biodegrading polyethylene, polystyrene, and polyvinyl chloride on the 
growth and development of yellow mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) larvae.

Jin L(1), Feng P(1), Cheng Z(2), Wang D(3).

Author information:
(1)Daqing Branch, Heilongjiang Academy of Agricultural Science, Daqing, 163316, 
China.
(2)College of Environment Science, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, 
611130, China.
(3)Daqing Branch, Heilongjiang Academy of Agricultural Science, Daqing, 163316, 
China. wangd913@163.com.

Yellow mealworm (Tenebrio molitor L.) larvae can depolymerize and degrade 
polyethylene (PE), polystyrene (PS), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). In this 
study, mealworms were utilized to biodegrade PE, PS, and PVC. Additionally, the 
effects of plastic degradation on the growth and development of yellow mealworm 
larvae were investigated by investigating the physiological indices and 
nutritional components of the larvae after plastic degradation. The results 
showed that degradation of plastics (PS, PE, and PVC) was promoted at a feeding 
amount of 0.50 g. However, the degradation of PVC at this concentration 
increased the mortality of yellow mealworms. In contrast, the degradation of a 
small amount of PS (0.10 g) promoted the nutritional value of crude protein 
(45.7 ± 2.08%) and phosphorus (1.23 ± 0.04%), had a lower larval mortality rate 
(7.90 ± 1.10%), and thus did not have a significant effect on the growth and 
development of yellow mealworms.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-022-24957-8
PMID: 36571680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Foods. 2022 Dec 15;11(24):4057. doi: 10.3390/foods11244057.

Effect of Mealworm Powder Substitution on the Properties of High-Gluten Wheat 
Dough and Bread Based on Different Baking Methods.

Xie X(1), Cai K(1), Yuan Z(1), Shang L(1), Deng L(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Biological and Food Engineering, Hubei Minzu University, Enshi 
445000, China.

Mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) are protein-rich edible insects that have been 
regarded as novel food ingredients. In this study, high-gluten wheat flour was 
formulated with dried mealworm powder at various levels (0%, 5%, 10%, 15%, and 
20%) to study its influence on the pasting, farinograph, and extensograph 
properties and microstructure of the dough. A subsequent decrease in the pasting 
parameters was observed due to starch dilution. The water absorption, dough 
development time, and dough stability time decreased gradually from 71.9% to 
68.67%, 13.6 min to 10.43 min, and 14.1 min to 5.33 min, respectively, with the 
increase in the substitution of mealworm powder from 0% to 20%. The farinograph 
characteristics corresponded to a weak gluten network formed through the 
dilution of gluten by the replacement of wheat flour with a non-gluten 
ingredient. The stretch ratio of the high-gluten dough increased gradually from 
4.37 (M0) to 6.33 (M15). The increased stretching resistance and extensibility 
of the dough with 5% and 10% mealworm powder indicated that mealworm powder can 
act as a plasticizer in the gluten network, which might contribute to the 
decreased strength and increased elasticity and flexibility of the dough 
network. The bread made with three different baking methods showed similar 
increases in specific volume and decreased hardness up to the 10% substitution 
level, owing to the increased elasticity and flexibility of the dough. The GB/T 
35869-2018 Rapid-baking method, GB/T 14611-2008 Straight dough method, and 
automatic bread maker method exhibited the highest specific volumes of 3.70 
mL/g, 3.79 mL/g, and 4.14 mL/g when the wheat flour was substituted with 10% 
mealworm powder. However, 15% and 20% mealworm powder substitution markedly 
reduced the bread quality owing to the dilution effect and mealworm powder phase 
separation. These results provide a perspective on the relationship between the 
rheological properties of mealworm powder-substituted high-gluten dough and 
application suggestions for insect food development in the food industry.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11244057
PMCID: PMC9778090
PMID: 36553798

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


71. Int Microbiol. 2023 May;26(2):397-409. doi: 10.1007/s10123-022-00303-3. Epub 
2022 Dec 9.

Co-diet supplementation of low density polyethylene and honeybee wax did not 
influence the core gut bacteria and associated enzymes of Galleria mellonella 
larvae (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).

Noël G(1), Serteyn L(2), Sare AR(3), Massart S(3), Delvigne F(4), Francis F(2).

Author information:
(1)Functional and Evolutionary Entomology, TERRA Teaching and Research Centre, 
Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liège, Gembloux, Belgium. 
gregoire.noel@uliege.be.
(2)Functional and Evolutionary Entomology, TERRA Teaching and Research Centre, 
Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liège, Gembloux, Belgium.
(3)Integrated and Urban Plant Pathology Laboratory, TERRA Teaching and Research 
Centre, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liège, Gembloux, Belgium.
(4)Laboratory of Microbial Processes and Interactions, CARE FoodisLife, TERRA 
Teaching and Research Centre, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liege, 
Gembloux, Belgium.

The current plastic pollution throughout the world is a rising concern that 
demands the optimization of biodegradation processes. One avenue for this is to 
identify plastic-degrading bacteria and associated enzymes from the gut bacteria 
of insect models such as Tenebrio molitor, Plodia interpunctella or Galleria 
mellonella that have the ability to ingest and rapidly degrade polyethylene. 
Therefore, this study takes part in understanding the role of the gut bacteria 
by investigating G. mellonella as a biological model feeding with a diet based 
on honeybee wax mixed or not with low-density polyethylene. Gut microbiome was 
analyzed by high throughput 16S rRNA sequencing, and Enterococcaceae and 
Oxalobacteraceae were found to be the major bacterial families. Compared to the 
control, the supplementation of low-density polyethylene did not cause 
significant modification of the bacterial microbiota at community and taxa 
levels, suggesting bacterial microbiome resilience. The bacterial proteome 
analysis of gut contents was encouraging for the identification of plastic 
degrading enzymes such as the phenylacetaldehyde dehydrogenase which participate 
in styrene degradation. This study allowed a better characterization of the gut 
bacteria of G. mellonella and provided a basis for the further study of 
biodegradation of polyethylene based on the bacterial microbiota from insect 
guts.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10123-022-00303-3
PMID: 36484909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Environ Sci Technol. 2022 Dec 6;56(23):16737-16747. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.2c03342. Epub 2022 Nov 15.

Biodegradation of Graphene Oxide by Insects (Tenebrio molitor Larvae): Role of 
the Gut Microbiome and Enzymes.

Liu Z(1)(2), Zhao J(1)(3), Lu K(4), Wang Z(5), Yin L(6), Zheng H(1), Wang X(1), 
Mao L(4), Xing B(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Coastal Environmental Pollution Control, and Ministry of 
Education Key Laboratory of Marine Environment and Ecology, and Frontiers 
Science Center for Deep Ocean Multispheres and Earth System, Ocean University of 
China, Qingdao 266100, China.
(2)Stockbridge School of Agriculture, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, 
Massachusetts 01003, United States.
(3)Laboratory for Marine Ecology and Environmental Science, Qingdao National 
Laboratory for Marine Science and Technology, Qingdao 266071, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, School of the 
Environment, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China.
(5)Institute of Environmental Processes and Pollution Control, and School of 
Environmental and Civil Engineering, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(6)College of Life Sciences, Hebei Normal University, Shijiazhuang 050024, 
China.

Biodegradation of graphene materials is critical for understanding their 
environmental process and fate. Thus, biodegradation and mineralization of 
graphene oxide (GO) by an insect (yellow mealworms, Tenebrio molitor larvae) 
were investigated. Twenty mealworms could eat up a piece of GO film (1.5 × 1.5 
cm) in 15 days. The ingested GO film underwent degradation, and the residual GO 
sheets were observed in the frass. Raman imaging confirmed that the residual GO 
(ID/IG, 1.16) was more defective than the pristine GO film (ID/IG, 0.95). 14C 
analysis showed that GO sheets were partially mineralized into CO2 (0.26%) and 
assimilated into biomass compositions (e.g., lipid and protein) (0.36%). Gut 
microbes and extracellular enzymes in yellow mealworms played crucial roles in 
GO degradation, and the predominant gut microbes for GO biodegradation were 
identified as Enterobacteriaceae bacteria (e.g., Escherichia-Shigella sp.). Two 
biodegradation products belonging to hydroxylated or carboxylated aromatic 
compounds were formed with the assistance of electrons and hydroxyl radicals in 
mealworm guts. These findings are useful for better understanding the 
environmental and biological fate of graphene materials.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.2c03342
PMID: 36379022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Environ Sci Technol. 2022 Dec 6;56(23):17310-17320. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.2c06260. Epub 2022 Nov 9.

Influence of Polymer Size on Polystyrene Biodegradation in Mealworms (Tenebrio 
molitor): Responses of Depolymerization Pattern, Gut Microbiome, and Metabolome 
to Polymers with Low to Ultrahigh Molecular Weight.

Peng BY(1), Sun Y(1), Xiao S(1), Chen J(1), Zhou X(1), Wu WM(2), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305-4020, United 
States.

Biodegradation of polystyrene (PS) in mealworms (Tenebrio molitor lavae) has 
been identified with commercial PS foams. However, there is currently limited 
understanding of the influence of molecular weight (MW) on insect-mediated 
plastic biodegradation and the corresponding responses of mealworms. In this 
study, we provided the results of PS biodegradation, gut microbiome, and 
metabolome by feeding mealworms with high-purity PS microplastics with a wide 
variety of MW. Over 24 days, mealworms (50 individuals) fed with 0.20 g of PS 
showed decreasing removal of 74.1 ± 1.7, 64.1 ± 1.6, 64.4 ± 4.0, 73.5 ± 0.9, 
60.6 ± 2.6, and 39.7 ± 4.3% for PS polymers with respective weight-average 
molecular weights (Mw) of 6.70, 29.17, 88.63, 192.9, 612.2, and 1346 kDa. The 
mealworms degraded most PS polymers via broad depolymerization but ultrahigh-MW 
PS via limited-extent depolymerization. The gut microbiome was strongly 
associated with biodegradation, but that with low- and medium-MW PS was 
significantly distinct from that with ultrahigh-MW PS. Metabolomic analysis 
indicated that PS biodegradation reprogrammed the metabolome and caused 
intestinal dysbiosis depending on MW. Our findings demonstrate that mealworms 
alter their gut microbiome and intestinal metabolic pathways in response to in 
vivo biodegradation of PS polymers of various MWs.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.2c06260
PMID: 36350780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Sci Total Environ. 2023 Jan 20;857(Pt 2):159335. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.159335. Epub 2022 Oct 10.

The interplay of larval age and particle size regulates micro-polystyrene 
biodegradation and development of Tenebrio molitor L.

Zhong Z(1), Zhou X(2), Xie Y(1), Chu LM(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, 
Hong Kong.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Emergency Test for Dangerous 
Chemicals, Guangdong Provincial Public Laboratory of Analysis and Testing 
Technology, Guangdong Institute of Analysis, Guangzhou 510070, Guangdong, China.
(3)School of Life Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, 
Hong Kong. Electronic address: leemanchu@cuhk.edu.hk.

Microplastics, tiny plastic fragments from 1 μm to 5 mm, are widespread 
globally, even in remote environments. Due to their small sizes, they are easily 
ingested by organisms and contaminate the food chain. Recently, the 
biodegradation of some recalcitrant plastics by larva of Tenebrio molitor L. 
(mealworm) has been reported. However, the effects of microplastic feeding on 
them are limited. In our study, we selected rigid micro-polystyrene (MPS) as the 
model plastic to investigate the influences of particle size and larval age on 
plastic consumption and degradation, and the effects of microplastic feeding on 
the survival and development of mealworms at different larval ages. The smaller 
the microplastic fragment was, the more plastics the mealworms consumed, though 
there was a limit on particle size. Mealworms of three-month-old had the highest 
consumption rate. Both depolymerization and modification on the functional 
groups were only observed in frass excreted by three-month old mealworms. 
Additionally, mealworms cofed with wheat bran and MPS of this age had comparable 
mortality, larval growing curve and pupation distribution as the control group 
with wheat bran. Our results demonstrated that mealworms in this larval stage 
had the greatest resistance to high doses of microplastic feeding. We suggested 
that microplastic waste could be provided to three-month old mealworms as half 
replacement of bran diet to result in the greatest plastic consumption and 
degradation.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.159335
PMID: 36228792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interest.


75. J Hazard Mater. 2022 Sep 15;438:129440. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2022.129440. Epub 
2022 Jun 21.

Effects of microplastics from disposable medical masks on terrestrial 
invertebrates.

Jemec Kokalj A(1), Dolar A(2), Drobne D(2), Škrlep L(3), Škapin AS(4), Marolt 
G(5), Nagode A(6), van Gestel CAM(7).

Author information:
(1)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Jamnikarjeva 101, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: 
anita.jemec@bf.uni-lj.si.
(2)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Jamnikarjeva 101, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(3)Slovenian National Building and Civil Engineering Institute, Dimičeva ulica 
12, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(4)Slovenian National Building and Civil Engineering Institute, Dimičeva ulica 
12, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia; Faculty of Polymer Technology - FTPO, Ozare 19, 
2380, Slovenj Gradec, Slovenia.
(5)University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, Večna 
pot 113, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(6)University of Ljubljana, Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Biology, 
Jamnikarjeva 101, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia; Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Faculty of Science, Amsterdam Institute for Life and Environment (A-LIFE), De 
Boelelaan 1085, 1081 HV Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Faculty of Science, Amsterdam Institute for 
Life and Environment (A-LIFE), De Boelelaan 1085, 1081 HV Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.

This study investigated impacts of microplastics from disposable polypropylene 
medical masks on woodlice Porcellio scaber, mealworm larvae Tenebrio molitor and 
enchytraeids Enchytraeus crypticus. Effects of microplastics on survival, 
reproduction, immune parameters and energy-related traits were assessed after 21 
days exposure in soil. Microplastics obtained from each medical mask layer 
separately differed in size and shape (inner frontal layer: 45.1 ± 21.5 µm, 
fibers; middle filtering layer: 55.6 ± 28.5 µm, fragments; outer layer: 
42.0 ± 17.8 µm, fibers) and composition of additives. Overall, the 
concentrations of metals and organic chemicals were too low to cause effects on 
soil invertebrates. The microplastics from disposable medical masks at 0.06%, 
0.5%, 1.5%, w/w did not induce severe adverse effects on survival or 
reproduction (for enchytraeids). A transient immune response of woodlice and a 
change in energy-related traits in mealworms were observed, which was most 
clearly seen for the microplastics from the outer layer. This was reflected in 
increased electron transfer system activity of mealworms and different immune 
response dynamics of woodlice. In conclusion, the tested soil invertebrates 
respond to microplastics from disposable medical masks, but it remains unclear 
what these changes mean for their fitness on the long term.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2022.129440
PMID: 35803191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Front Physiol. 2022 Jun 14;13:947707. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2022.947707. 
eCollection 2022.

Editorial: Innate Immune System Guiding Physiological Plasticity in 
Invertebrates.

Patnaik BB(1)(2), Lee YS(2), Han YS(3), Jo YH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences and Biotechnology, Fakir Mohan University, 
Balasore, India.
(2)Department of Biology, College of Natural Sciences, Soonchunhyang University, 
Asan, South Korea.
(3)Department of Applied Biology, Institute of Environmentally-Friendly 
Agriculture, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju, South Korea.

Comment on
    Editorial on the Research TopicInnate Immune System Guiding Physiological 
Plasticity in Invertebrates.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2022.947707
PMCID: PMC9237642
PMID: 35774282

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


77. Chemosphere. 2022 Oct;304:135263. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.135263. Epub 
2022 Jun 10.

Biodegradation of polyether-polyurethane foam in yellow mealworms (Tenebrio 
molitor) and effects on the gut microbiome.

Liu J(1), Liu J(1), Xu B(1), Xu A(1), Cao S(1), Wei R(2), Zhou J(3), Jiang M(1), 
Dong W(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, College of 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
211800, PR China.
(2)Junior Research Group Plastic Biodegradation, Department of Biotechnology and 
Enzyme Catalysis, Institute of Biochemistry, University of Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, College of 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
211800, PR China. Electronic address: jayzhou@njtech.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, College of 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
211800, PR China. Electronic address: dwl@njtech.edu.cn.

Polyurethane (PU) is one of the mass-produced recalcitrant plastics with a high 
environmental resistance but extremely low biodegradability. Therefore, 
improperly disposed PU waste adds significantly to plastic pollution, which must 
be addressed immediately. In recent years, there has been an increasing number 
of reports on plastic biodegradation in insect larvae, especially those that can 
feed on polyethylene and polystyrene. This study revealed that yellow mealworm 
(Tenebrio molitor) larvae can chew and ingest polyether-PU foams efficiently, 
resulting in a significant mass loss of nearly 67% after 35 days at a similar 
survival rate compared to when fed on bran. However, polyether-PU fragments were 
found in the frass of T. molitor, indicating that polyether-PU biodegradation 
and bioconversion in intestinal tracts were not complete. The scission of ether 
and urethane bonds in the polyether-PU can be evidenced by comparing polymer 
fragments recovered from frass with the pristine ones using Fourier transform 
infrared spectroscopy and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Gel permeation 
chromatography suggested the release of low-molecular-weight oligomers as a 
result of the biodegradation, which also resulted in poor thermal stability of 
the polyether-PU foam as determined by thermogravimetric analysis. 
High-throughput sequencing of the gut microbiome revealed significant changes in 
the microbial community populations due to the polyether-PU diet, for example, 
an increase in the families Enterobacteriaceae and Streptococcaceae, suggesting 
that these microorganisms may contribute to the polyether-PU biodegradation.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.135263
PMID: 35697110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Sci Rep. 2022 Jun 10;12(1):9598. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-13429-1.

Potential of mealworms used in polyhydroxyalkanoate/bioplastic recovery as red 
hybrid tilapia (Oreochromis sp.) feed ingredient.

Zainab-L I(1), Ng WK(1)(2), Sudesh K(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800, Penang, 
Malaysia.
(2)Asian Aquafeeds Services, Lavinia, Taman Sri Nibong, 11900, Penang, Malaysia.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800, Penang, 
Malaysia. ksudesh@usm.my.

Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) are bio-based polymers produced in bacterial cells 
to replace some petrochemical plastics. It has always been a challenge to 
commercialise PHA due in part to the costly recovery processes of the PHA 
granules from the bacterial cells. The biological approach of using mealworms, 
Tenebrio molitor, for the recovery of PHA from the bacterial cells is a newly 
established method that is at the scale-up stage. On the other hand, the 
aquaculture feed industry needs a low-cost mealworm meal as a protein source. We 
aimed at studying the nutritional value of the mealworms (which are by-products) 
used for the poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) (the most common type of PHA) 
recovery from the bacterial and examining the effect of the mealworms on the 
growth performance, and feed utilization efficiency of red hybrid tilapia 
(Oreochromis sp.). The cells were fed to the mealworms to digest the 
proteinaceous cellular materials and excrete the PHB granules in the form of 
fecal pellets. The resulting mealworms were used as fishmeal replacement to 
formulate five isonitrogenous (35% crude protein) and isolipidic (8% lipid) 
diets at mealworm meal (MwM) inclusion levels of 0% (MwM0/control diet), 25% 
(MwM25), 50% (MwM50), 75% (MwM75) or 100% (MwM100). The results showed good 
nutritive value mealworms [high protein (75%), low-lipid (10%)] and up to 75% 
MwM inclusion diet was good in supplying satisfactory nutrients and energy to 
the red hybrid tilapia. This approach is beneficial in a way that minimal cost 
was involved in recovering kilograms of PHB and the proteins, lipids, and 
minerals from the bacterial cells do not end up as wastes but in turn, are used 
as nutrition by the larvae.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-13429-1
PMCID: PMC9187653
PMID: 35689011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


79. Sci Total Environ. 2022 Sep 1;837:155719. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.155719. 
Epub 2022 May 5.

Different plastics ingestion preferences and efficiencies of superworm (Zophobas 
atratus Fab.) and yellow mealworm (Tenebrio molitor Linn.) associated with 
distinct gut microbiome changes.

Wang Y(1), Luo L(1), Li X(1), Wang J(1), Wang H(1), Chen C(2), Guo H(1), Han 
T(1), Zhou A(3), Zhao X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, School of Resources and Civil 
Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang 110819, China.
(2)Faculty of Forestry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver V6T 1Z4, 
Canada.
(3)Institute for Environmental Genomics, Department of Microbiology & Plant 
Biology, University of Oklahoma, Norman 73019, USA.
(4)Department of Environmental Engineering, School of Resources and Civil 
Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang 110819, China. Electronic 
address: zhaoxin@mail.neu.edu.cn.

Larvae of superworms (Zophobas atratus Fab.) and yellow mealworms (Tenebrio 
molitor Linn.) can survive on sole plastic diets. However, no side-by-side 
comparison of plastics degradation by both species is available yet. Here, 
superworms and yellow mealworms were fed with polystyrene (PS) or polyurethane 
(PU) foam plastics as sole diets for 35 days with bran as control. Superworms 
survived 100% on all diets but decreased weights were observed after 20 days 
with sole plastic diets. In contrast, yellow mealworms survived 84.67% or 62.67% 
with PS or PU diet, respectively, both plastics diet groups showed increased 
weights. Cumulative consumption of plastics by superworms were 49.24 mg-PS/larva 
and 26.23 mg-PU/larva, which were 18 and 11 folds of that of yellow mealworms, 
respectively. When converted into mg/g-larvae, superworms had a higher PS 
consumption rate but both species had similar PU consumption rates. Similar 
changes of the plastic chemical functional groups in frass indicated occurrences 
of oxidation and biodegradation of plastics in the guts of both species. Changes 
of gut microbial communities were found associated with plastics feedstocks and 
larvae species. The increased relative abundances of unclassified 
Enterobacteriaceae, Klebsiella, Enterococcus, Dysgonomonas and Sphingobacterium 
were strongly associated with PS diet in superworms, while Hafnia was strongly 
associated with PS diet in yellow mealworms. Enterococcus and Mangrovibacter 
were dominant in PU-fed superworm guts, while unclassified Enterobacteriaceae 
and Hafnia were strongly associated with PU feeding in yellow mealworms. The 
results demonstrated that different plastics ingestion preferences and 
efficiencies of both species were associated with distinct dominant microbiomes 
although similar changes of chemical groups in plastics were observed.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.155719
PMID: 35526626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


80. Chemosphere. 2022 Aug;300:134420. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.134420. Epub 
2022 Mar 31.

Cellular lipids and protein alteration during biodegradation of expanded 
polystyrene by mealworm larvae under different feeding conditions.

Tsochatzis ED(1), Berggreen IE(2), Vidal NP(3), Roman L(4), Gika H(5), Corredig 
M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, 
Aarhus N, Denmark; CiFOOD, Centre for Innovative Food Research, Aarhus 
University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, Aarhus N, Denmark. Electronic address: 
Emmanouil.Tsochatzis@food.au.dk.
(2)Aarhus University, Department of Animal Science, Blichers Alle 20, 8830, 
Tjele, Denmark.
(3)Department of Food Science, Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, 
Aarhus N, Denmark; CiFOOD, Centre for Innovative Food Research, Aarhus 
University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, Aarhus N, Denmark; Aarhus Institute of 
Advanced Studies (AIAS), Aarhus University, DK-8000, Aarhus, Denmark.
(4)Department of Food Science, Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, 
Aarhus N, Denmark; CiFOOD, Centre for Innovative Food Research, Aarhus 
University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, Aarhus N, Denmark.
(5)Food Omics GR Research Infrastructure, AUTh Node, Center for 
Interdisciplinary Research and Innovation (CIRI-AUTH), Balkan Center B1.4, 10th 
Km Thessaloniki-Thermi Rd, P.O. Box 8318, GR 57001, Thessaloniki, Greece; School 
of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124, Thessaloniki, Greece.

The present study reports the biodegradation of polystyrene (PS) by mealworm 
(Tenebrio molitor) following different feeding regimes. Changes in lipids and 
protein were studied to evaluate possible differences in the growth and 
metabolic pathways of the insects depending on the diets. Thermo-gravimetric 
analysis of the excretions (frass) revealed a decrease in the molecular mass of 
the PS polymers. The insects' biomass contained less protein when PS was part of 
the diet, suggesting that the insects undergo a certain level of stress compared 
to control diets. The frass also contained lower amount of nitrogen content 
compared to that from insects fed a control diet. NH4+ and other cations 
involved in biochemical processes were also measured in insects' frass, 
including potassium, sodium, magnesium, and calcium, combined with a small pH 
change. The decrease in the mineral content of the frass was attributed to 
increased cellular activity in PS-fed insects. A higher amount of ceramides and 
cardiolipins, biomarkers of apoptosis, were also found in association with PS 
consumption. It was concluded that the insects could metabolize PS, but this 
caused an increase in its stress levels.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.134420
PMID: 35367488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Sci Total Environ. 2022 Aug 1;832:154758. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154758. 
Epub 2022 Mar 24.

Polyethylene, polystyrene and lignocellulose wastes as mealworm (Tenebrio 
molitor L.) diets and their impact on the breeding condition, biometric 
parameters, metabolism, and digestive microbiome.

Przemieniecki SW(1), Kosewska A(2), Kosewska O(2), Purwin C(3), Lipiński K(3), 
Ciesielski S(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, Department of Entomology, 
Phytopathology and Molecular Diagnostics, Prawocheńskiego 17, 10-720 Olsztyn, 
Poland. Electronic address: sebastian.przemieniecki@uwm.edu.pl.
(2)University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, Department of Entomology, 
Phytopathology and Molecular Diagnostics, Prawocheńskiego 17, 10-720 Olsztyn, 
Poland.
(3)Department of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science, University of Warmia and 
Mazury in Olsztyn, Oczapowskiego 5, 10-719 Olsztyn, Poland.
(4)University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, Department of Environmental 
Biotechnology, Słoneczna 45G, 10-719 Olsztyn, Poland.

This study aimed to identify the extent to which a diet of oatmeal and polymers 
affects the development of mealworms, their microbiome, the biochemical activity 
of their digestive system, and their feed-metabolizing capacity. With a 
polystyrene diet, feed loss was most significant, as indicated by FTIR 
(Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy) of frass, which showed that 
polystyrene was the only compound that was chemically modified. Compared to the 
control diet, mealworm larvae developed best on polyethylene regranulate 
(PE-reg), quickly transiting from one developmental stage to another with minor 
mass loss. A lignocellulose-based diet was the least beneficial for mealworm 
development. A polystyrene diet was most beneficial in terms of the protein 
content in larvae, but the contents and quality (usefulness as food) of fatty 
acids in the insects fed these wastes were significantly lower than in the 
control insects. For each diet, specific microbial cultures formed, and the 
presence of protozoa and various biochemical activities suggested different 
survival strategies and assimilation mechanisms facilitating survival. Despite 
profound changes in the microbiota and biochemistry of the digestive tract of 
mealworms fed waste-based diets, this study indicates their potential for 
utilizing PE-reg and polystyrene.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154758
PMID: 35339543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


82. Sci Total Environ. 2022 Jul 1;828:154458. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154458. 
Epub 2022 Mar 9.

Impacts of physical-chemical property of polyethylene on depolymerization and 
biodegradation in yellow and dark mealworms with high purity microplastics.

Yang SS(1), Ding MQ(1), Ren XR(1), Zhang ZR(2), Li MX(1), Zhang LL(3), Pang 
JW(3), Chen CX(1), Zhao L(1), Xing DF(1), Ren NQ(1), Ding J(4), Wu WM(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(2)College of Wildlife and Protected Area, Northeast Forestry University, Harbin 
150040, China.
(3)China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group, Beijing 100089, 
China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic 
address: dingjie123@hit.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. Electronic 
address: billwu@stanford.edu.

Yellow and dark mealworms (Tenebrio molitor and Tenebrio obscurus) biodegrade 
commercial polyethylene (PE) materials at a high rate. We examined the impact of 
physical and chemical properties on biodegradation using high purity 
microplastics (MPs). These included high-density polyethylene (HDPE), 
low-density polyethylene (LDPE), and linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE), 
all with different weight average molecular weights (Mw) and different 
crystallinity degrees in T. molitor and T. obscurus larvae. The biodegradation 
extent in the two mealworms was similar but strongly depended on the polymer 
type in sequence, since LDPE > LLDPE> HDPE (with respective Mw of 222.5, 110.5 
and 182 kDa). When LDPE MPs with Mw of 0.84, 6.4 and 106.8 kDa and HDPE with Mw 
of 52, 105 and 132.7 kDa were tested, the PE MPs with lower Mw showed a greater 
extent of depolymerization. The results of dominance analysis indicated that 
less branching structure and higher crystallinity degree negatively impacted 
depolymerization and biodegradation. Py-GC/MS analysis confirmed the breaking of 
the macromolecule backbone as well as the formation of oxidized functional 
groups after all the tested PE materials passed through the mealworm intestine. 
The results demonstrated that molecular weight, PE type, branching, and 
crystallinity degree significantly affect the biodegradation capability of PE by 
the mealworms, and possibly by other biological systems as well.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154458
PMID: 35278547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


83. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2022 Feb;72(2). doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.005246.

Tenebrionibacter intestinalis gen. nov., sp. nov., a member of a novel genus of 
the family Enterobacteriaceae, isolated from the gut of the plastic-eating 
mealworm Tenebrio molitor L.

Hu L(1), Yang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing 100081, PR China.

A Gram-negative, white-pigmented, motile and rod-shaped strain, BIT-L3T, was 
isolated from the gut of plastic-eating mealworm Tenebrio molitor L. Its 
taxonomic position was determined by using a polyphasic approach. A preliminary 
analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence (1445 bp) revealed that this strain 
was closely related to the members within the family Enterobacteriaceae. 
Phylogenetic trees based on the concatenated partial sequences of seven 
housekeeping genes (atpD, gyrB, infB, rpoB, pyrG, fusA, leuS) and genome 
sequences further showed that strain BIT-L3T constituted a separate lineage 
within the family Enterobacteriaceae. In silico DNA-DNA hybridization values and 
average nucleotide identity values between strain BIT-L3T and its closest 
related species within the family Enterobacteriaceae were less than 21.8 and 
76.7 %, respectively. The major fatty acids (>5 %) of strain BIT-L3T were 
C16 : 0, C14 : 0, C17 : 0 cyclo, summed feature 8 (comprising C18 : 1 ω7c and/or 
C18 : 1 ω6c), summed feature 3 (comprising C16 : 1 ω7c and/or C16 : 1 ω6c and/or 
iso-C15 : 0 2-OH) and summed feature 2 (comprising iso-C16 : 1 I/C14 : 0 3-OH 
and/or C12 : 0 aldehyde and/or an unknown fatty acid of equivalent chain length 
10.9525). Its genomic DNA G+C content was 53.7 mol%. Based on the results of 
phylogenetic, physiological and biochemical analyses, strain BIT-L3T is 
considered to represent a novel species of a novel genus within the family 
Enterobacteriaceae, for which the name Tenebrionibacter intestinalis gen. nov., 
sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is BIT-L3T (=CCTCC AB 2020371T=LMG 
32222T=TBRC 14825T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.005246
PMID: 35156915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Microb Ecol. 2023 Jan;85(1):264-276. doi: 10.1007/s00248-021-01930-5. Epub 2022 
Jan 21.

Nitrogen Fixation and Diazotrophic Community in Plastic-Eating Mealworms 
Tenebrio molitor L.

Yang Y(1), Hu L(2), Li X(2)(3), Wang J(2), Jin G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing, 100081, People's Republic of China. yooyoung@bit.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Biology, School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing, 100081, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Resources and Environmental Engineering, Wuhan University of 
Technology, Wuhan, 430070, People's Republic of China.
(4)Analytical Laboratory, Beijing Research Institute of Uranium Geology, 
Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of China.

Mealworms, the larvae of a coleopteran insect Tenebrio molitor L., are capable 
of eating, living on, and degrading non-hydrolyzable vinyl plastics as sole 
diet. However, vinyl plastics are carbon-rich but nitrogen-deficient. It remains 
puzzling how plastic-eating mealworms overcome the nutritional obstacle of 
nitrogen limitation. Here, we provide the evidence for nitrogen fixation 
activity within plastic-eating mealworms. Acetylene reduction assays illustrate 
that the nitrogen-fixing activity ranges from 12.3 ± 0.7 to 32.9 ± 9.3 nmol 
ethylene·h-1·gut-1 and the corresponding fixed nitrogen equivalents of protein 
are estimated as 8.6 to 23.0 µg per day per mealworm. Nature nitrogen isotopic 
analyses of plastic-eating mealworms provide further evidence for the 
assimilation of fixed nitrogen as a new nitrogen source. Eliminating the gut 
microbial microbiota with antibiotics impairs the mealworm's ability to fix 
nitrogen from the atmosphere, indicating the contribution of gut microbiota to 
nitrogen fixation. By using the traditional culture-dependent technique, PCR and 
RT-PCR of nifH gene, nitrogen-fixing bacteria diversity within the gut was 
detected, and the genus Klebsiella was demonstrated to be an important 
nitrogen-fixing symbiont. These findings first build the relationship between 
plastic degradation (carbon metabolism) and nitrogen fixation (nitrogen 
metabolism) within mealworms. Combined with previously reported 
plastic-degrading capability and nitrogen-fixing activity, mealworms may be 
potential candidates for up-recycling of plastic waste to produce protein 
sources.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-021-01930-5
PMID: 35061090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Chemosphere. 2022 Apr;293:133600. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.133600. Epub 
2022 Jan 11.

Hydrocarbon-based plastics: Progress and perspectives on consumption and 
biodegradation by insect larvae.

Pivato AF(1), Miranda GM(2), Prichula J(1), Lima JEA(2), Ligabue RA(2), Seixas 
A(3), Trentin DS(4).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), 
Departamento de Ciências Básicas da Saúde, Laboratório de Microbiologia 
Molecular, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(2)Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Escola 
Politécnica, Laboratório de Organometálicos e Resinas, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande 
do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), 
Departamento de Farmacociências, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(4)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), 
Departamento de Ciências Básicas da Saúde, Laboratório de Microbiologia 
Molecular, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Electronic address: 
daniellest@ufcspa.edu.br.

The obvious contrast between the remarkable durability and the high consumption 
of plastic products leads to the deposition of at least 100 million tons of 
plastics per year in nature. Since 2010, several studies have shown the 
potential of insect larvae to biodegrade different types of plastics, at higher 
rates than those reported for microorganisms. This review discusses a 
compilation of studies about the consumption and biodegradation of 
hydrocarbon-based plastics, particularly PE, PS, PP and PVC, by lepidopteran and 
coleopteran larvae. Insects of the Coleoptera order seem to have a better 
adaptation for PS biodegradation, while those of the Lepidoptera order can 
better biodegrade PE. Tenebrio molitor biomineralize PE and PS into CO2, and PVC 
into HCl; while Tenebrio obscurus and Zophobas atratus converts PE and PS into 
CO2, respectively. Plastic biodegradation by T. molitor has been shown to be 
dependent on microbiota, exception for PE. Similar PS and PE biodegradation 
profile has been shown for T. obscurus. PS, PP and PE biodegradation by Z. 
atratus is also reported to be microbial-dependent. For Galleria mellonella, 
microbial role on PE biodegradation is still controversial, but the PS 
metabolism was proved to be microbiota-independent. Advances in this field has 
stimulated new studies with other insect species, which need to be better 
explored. Uncovering and understanding the chemical processes behind the innate 
plastic biodegradation by insect larvae will open the perspective to new 
eco-friendly innovative biotechnological solutions for the challenge of plastic 
waste.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.133600
PMID: 35031254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. BMC Biotechnol. 2022 Jan 4;22(1):2. doi: 10.1186/s12896-021-00733-3.

Tenebrio molitor: possible source of polystyrene-degrading bacteria.

Machona O(1), Chidzwondo F(1), Mangoyi R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Biochemistry, University of Zimbabwe, Harare, 
Zimbabwe.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Biochemistry, University of Zimbabwe, Harare, 
Zimbabwe. rrumbie.2000@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The excessive use of polystyrene as a packaging material has 
resulted in a rise in environmental pollution. Polystyrene waste has continually 
increased water pollution, soil pollution and the closing of landfill sites 
since it is durable and resistant to biodegradation. Therefore, the challenge in 
polystyrene disposal has caused researchers to look for urgent innovative and 
eco-friendly solutions for plastic degradation. The current study focuses on the 
isolation and identification of bacteria produced by the larvae of beetle 
Tenebrio molitor (yellow mealworms), that enable them to survive when fed with 
polystyrene foam as their sole carbon diet.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The biodegradation of polystyrene by Tenebrio molitor was 
investigated by breeding and rearing the mealworms in the presence and absence 
of polystyrene. A comparison was made between those fed with a normal diet and 
those fed on polystyrene. The mealworms which were fed with polystyrene were 
then dissected and the guts were collected to isolate and identify the bacteria 
in their guts. The viability and metabolic activity of the isolates were 
investigated. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by sequencing was 
used for molecular identification of the isolates. The PCR products were 
directly sequenced using Sanger's method and the phylogenetic tree and molecular 
evolutionary analyses were constructed using MEGAX software with the Neighbour 
Joining algorithm. The evolutionary distances were computed using the Maximum 
Composite Likelihood method.
RESULTS: The decrease in mass of the polystyrene as feedstock confirmed that the 
mealworms were depending on polystyrene as their sole carbon diet. The frass 
egested by mealworms also confirmed the biodegradation of polystyrene as it 
contained very tiny residues of polystyrene. Three isolates were obtained from 
the mealworms guts, and all were found to be gram-negative. The sequencing 
results showed that the isolates were Klebsiella oxytoca ATCC 13182, Klebsiella 
oxytoca NBRC 102593 and Klebsiella oxytoca JCM 1665.
CONCLUSION: Klebsiella oxytoca ATCC 13182, Klebsiella oxytoca NBRC 102593 and 
Klebsiella oxytoca JCM 1665 maybe some of the bacteria responsible for 
polystyrene biodegradation.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-021-00733-3
PMCID: PMC8728996
PMID: 34983479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


87. Molecules. 2021 Dec 14;26(24):7568. doi: 10.3390/molecules26247568.

Gut Microbiome and Degradation Product Formation during Biodegradation of 
Expanded Polystyrene by Mealworm Larvae under Different Feeding Strategies.

Tsochatzis E(1)(2), Berggreen IE(3), Tedeschi F(4), Ntrallou K(5), Gika H(5)(6), 
Corredig M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(2)CiFOOD-Centre for Innovative Food Research, Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 
48, 8200 Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Department of Animal Science, Aarhus University, Blichers Alle 20, Tjele, 
Foulum, 8830 Viborg, Denmark.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Aarhus University, Gustav Wieds 
Vej 10, 8000 Aarhus, Denmark.
(5)FoodOmicsGR Research Infrastructure, AUTh Node, Center for Interdisciplinary 
Research and Innovation (CIRI-AUTH), Balkan Center B1.4, 10th Km 
Thessaloniki-Thermi Rd, P.O. Box 8318, 57001 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(6)School of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

Polystyrene (PS) is a plastic polymer extensively used for food packaging. PS is 
difficult to decompose and has low recycling rates, resulting in its 
accumulation in the environment, in the form of microplastic particles causing 
pollution and harming oceans and wildlife. Degradation of PS by mealworms 
(Tenebrio molitor) has been suggested as a possible biological strategy for 
plastic contamination; however, the biodegradation mechanism of PS by mealworms 
is poorly understood. It is hypothesized that the gut microbiome plays an 
important role in the degradation of PS by mealworms. This study carried out a 
comparative analysis of the gut microbiome of Tenebrio molitor larvae under 
different feeding strategies, and of the formation of degradation compounds 
(monomers, oligomers). A diet of bran:PS at 4:1 and 20:1 ratios was tested. The 
diet with the low ratio of bran:PS led to the presence of higher amounts of 
these compounds, compared to that with the high ratio. In addition, it was 
demonstrated that the addition of H2O significantly improved the biodegradation 
of PS monomer and oligomer residues, which could be identified only in the 
frass. The protein and nitrogen contents in insects' biomass and frass varied 
amongst treatments. The diets resulted in differences in the gut microbiota, and 
three potential bacterial strains were identified as candidates involved in the 
biodegradation of PS.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26247568
PMCID: PMC8708845
PMID: 34946661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


88. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2022 Jan;29(3):4785. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-021-17393-7.

Correction to: Tenebrio molitor in the circular economy: a novel approach for 
plastic valorisation and PHA biological recovery.

Sangiorgio P(1), Verardi A(2), Dimatteo S(2), Spagnoletta A(2), Moliterni S(2), 
Errico S(2).

Author information:
(1)ENEA Italian National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable 
Economic Development, Trisaia Research Centre, S.S. 106 Jonica, km 419,500, 
75026, Rotondella, MT, Italy. paola.sangiorgio@enea.it.
(2)ENEA Italian National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable 
Economic Development, Trisaia Research Centre, S.S. 106 Jonica, km 419,500, 
75026, Rotondella, MT, Italy.

Erratum for
    Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2021 Oct;28(38):52689-52701. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-021-15944-6.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-021-17393-7
PMCID: PMC9172739
PMID: 34741272


89. Polymers (Basel). 2021 Oct 14;13(20):3539. doi: 10.3390/polym13203539.

Biodegradation of Polystyrene by Tenebrio molitor, Galleria mellonella, and 
Zophobas atratus Larvae and Comparison of Their Degradation Effects.

Jiang S(1), Su T(1), Zhao J(1), Wang Z(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Petrochemical Engineering, Liaoning Petrochemical University, 
Fushun 113001, China.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, 
Shenyang Agricultural University, Shenyang 110866, China.

Plastic waste pollution and its difficult degradation process have aroused 
widespread concern. Research has demonstrated that the larvae of Tenebrio 
molitor (yellow mealworm), Galleria mellonella (greater wax moth), and Zophobas 
atratus (superworm) possess a biodegradation ability for polystyrene (PS) within 
the gut microbiota of these organisms. In this study, the difference in PS 
degradation and the changes of the gut microbiota were compared before and after 
feeding PS. The results showed that superworm had the strongest PS consumption 
capacity and the highest survival rate during the 30 d experiment period. They 
all could degrade PS to different degrees. Superworm showed the highest ability 
to degrade PS into low-molecular-weight substances, while yellow mealworm 
depolymerized PS strongly by destroying the benzene ring. The changes of the 
intestinal microbiome caused by feeding PS showed that after ingesting PS, there 
was a decrease in community diversity in superworm and yellow mealworm, but an 
increase in greater wax moth. Meanwhile, Enterococcus and Enterobacteriaceae, 
found in all three species' larvae upon 20 d of PS feeding, might play an 
important role in PS degradation. The results will provide more accurate PS 
degradation comparative data of the three species' larvae and theoretical 
guidance for further research on the efficient PS biodegradations.

DOI: 10.3390/polym13203539
PMCID: PMC8541195
PMID: 34685298

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


90. Polymers (Basel). 2021 Oct 13;13(20):3508. doi: 10.3390/polym13203508.

Biodegradation of Different Types of Plastics by Tenebrio molitor Insect.

Bulak P(1), Proc K(1), Pytlak A(1), Puszka A(2), Gawdzik B(2), Bieganowski A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Agrophysics, Polish Academy of Sciences, Doświadczalna 4, 20-290 
Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Polymer Chemistry, Institute of Chemical Sciences, Faculty of 
Chemistry, Maria Curie-Sklodowska University in Lublin, Gliniana 33, 20-614 
Lublin, Poland.

Looking for new, sustainable ways to utilize plastics is still a very pertinent 
topic considering the amount of plastics produced in the world. One of the 
newest and intriguing possibility is the use of insects in biodegradation of 
plastics, which can be named entomoremediation. The aim of this work was to 
demonstrate the ability of the insect Tenebrio molitor to biodegrade different, 
real plastic waste. The types of plastic waste used were: remains of thermal 
building insulation polystyrene foam (PS), two types of polyurethane (kitchen 
sponge as PU1 and commercial thermal insulation foam as PU2), and polyethylene 
foam (PE), which has been used as packaging material. After 58 days, the 
efficiency of mass reduction for all of the investigated plastics was 46.5%, 
41.0%, 53.2%, and 69.7% for PS, PU1, PU2, and PE, respectively (with a dose of 
0.0052 g of each plastic per 1 mealworm larvae). Both larvae and imago were 
active plastic eaters. However, in order to shorten the duration of the 
experiment and increase the specific consumption rate, the two forms of the 
insect should not be combined together in one container.

DOI: 10.3390/polym13203508
PMCID: PMC8537651
PMID: 34685267

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing interest. The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the 
collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the 
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


91. Sci Total Environ. 2022 Feb 10;807(Pt 3):151037. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.151037. Epub 2021 Oct 16.

Feeding preference of insect larvae to waste electrical and electronic equipment 
plastics.

Zhu P(1), Shen Y(1), Li X(2), Liu X(1), Qian G(1), Zhou J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai University, 99 
Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
lixiaowei419@shu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Technology 
Sydney, 15 Broadway, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia.

Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) plastics not only pollute the 
environment, but are challenging to treat in an environmentally friendly manner. 
Biodegradation by insect larvae is potentially an eco-friendly method to treat 
WEEE plastics, but information about the feeding preference of insect larvae to 
WEEE plastics is lacking. In this study, a total of nine WEEE and pristine 
plastics were chosen to feed larvae of the following two insect species, i.e. 
Galleria mellonella and Tenebrio molitor. G. mellonella larvae significantly 
favor corresponding pristine plastics compared to two types of WEEE plastics, 
waste rigid polyurethane (RPU) and waste polystyrene (PS). One possible 
explanation is the increased chlorine or metals in the WEEE plastics measured 
using X-ray fluorescence spectrometer analysis. Scanning electron microscopy and 
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy show that the destruction of physical 
structures and changes in surface functional groups were found in the two types 
of WEEE plastics in the larval frass, implying that the larvae partly 
biodegraded the plastics. Meanwhile, the powdered waste high impact polystyrene 
plastics (WHIPS) were ingested, but not the lumpy ones, indicating that the 
consumption by G. mellonella larvae is improved by the WHIPS physical 
modification. In addition, G. mellonella larvae presented the following 
decreasing preference for pristine plastics under individual-plastic-fed mode: 
RPU > phenol-formaldehyde resin > polyethylene 
(PE) > polypropylene > PS ≈ polyvinyl chloride; this is possibly due to 
differences in physical properties and chemical structures of the plastics; 
feeding preference of the larvae under multiple-plastics-fed mode is relatively 
consistent to that under individual-plastic-fed mode. Interestingly, the 
consumption by G. mellonella larvae of PE is higher than that of PS, while T. 
molitor larvae showed the opposite trend, implying that insect larvae have 
different plastics preference. The findings provide insights into biodegradation 
of WEEE plastics by insect larvae.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.151037
PMID: 34666086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


92. Chemosphere. 2022 Jan;287(Pt 1):132063. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2021.132063. 
Epub 2021 Aug 27.

Long-term effect of plastic feeding on growth and transcriptomic response of 
mealworms (Tenebrio molitor L.).

Zhong Z(1), Nong W(1), Xie Y(1), Hui JHL(1), Chu LM(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, 
Hong Kong SAR, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, 
Hong Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: leemanchu@cuhk.edu.hk.

Plastic waste has been considered a serious global environmental problem for 
decades. Despite the high recalcitrance of synthetic plastics, the 
biodegradation of polyethylene (PE), polystyrene (PS), polypropylene (PP), and 
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) by some insect larvae has been reported; however, the 
mechanism of degradation remains largely unknown. We investigated the effects of 
plastics on the growth of mealworms (larvae of Tenebrio molitor) and their role 
in PS and PE degradation. Mealworms were capable of ingesting high-impact 
polystyrene (HIPS), expanded polystyrene (EPS) and low-density polyethylene 
(LDPE) but not linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE) or polypropylene (PP). 
Plastic consumption was negatively dependent on plastic crystallinity. 
Transcriptome analysis and KEGG mapping revealed that mealworms act as 
downstream decomposers in plastic depolymerization and that fatty acid 
degradation pathways may play important roles in the digestion of plastic 
degradation intermediates produced by gut bacteria. In addition, PS and PE 
degradation was achieved via the diffusion of extracellular depolymerases, which 
probably acted on the distal backbone and produce shorter linear chains that 
containing ≤16 C atoms instead of branched chains. Additionally, the 
intermediates of PS degradation are expected to be further decomposed by 
mealworms as xenobiotics. This study provided a preliminary understanding of 
plastic degradation mechanism by mealworms.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2021.132063
PMID: 34523442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. J Hazard Mater. 2021 Aug 15;416:126222. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.126222. Epub 
2021 May 26.

Response of the yellow mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) gut microbiome to diet shifts 
during polystyrene and polyethylene biodegradation.

Lou Y(1), Li Y(2), Lu B(1), Liu Q(1), Yang SS(1), Liu B(1), Ren N(1), Wu WM(3), 
Xing D(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China; Department of 
Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery 
Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global Competitiveness, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, USA.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, USA.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic 
address: dxing@hit.edu.cn.

Plastic biodegradation by mealworm is regarded as an emerging strategy for 
plastic disposal. In this study, the polystyrene (PS) and low density 
polyethylene (LDPE) degradation efficiency by yellow mealworms (Tenebrio molitor 
larvae) supplemented with bran and the effects of plastics on the gut core 
microbiome were explored to construct a circular and continuous reactor for 
plastic biodegradation in the future. The gut microbiome was also investigated 
with dietary shift to explore the relationship between specific diets and gut 
microbes. The bran plus plastic (7:1 ratio, w/w) co-diet contributed to the 
mealworm survival and growth. The formation of -C˭O-/-C-O- groups in the 
plastic-fed mealworms frass represented the oxidation process of plastic 
biodegradation in the mealworm gut. The changes in molecular weights (Mw, Mn and 
Mz) of residual PS and LDPE in mealworms frass compared with that of PS and PE 
feedstock confirmed the plastic depolymerization and biodegradation. 
Lactobacillus and Mucispirillum were significantly associated with PE + bran 
diet compared to bran diet and PE diet, representing the response of mealworm 
gut microbiome to the bran and plastic mixture was distinguished from either 
bran or plastics alone. The gut microbiome changed substantially with the diet 
shift, indicating that microbial community assembly was a stochastic process and 
diverse plastic-degrading bacteria might occur in the mealworm gut.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.126222
PMID: 34492977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2021 Oct;28(38):52689-52701. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-021-15944-6. Epub 2021 Aug 28.

Tenebrio molitor in the circular economy: a novel approach for plastic 
valorisation and PHA biological recovery.

Sangiorgio P(1), Verardi A(2), Dimatteo S(2), Spagnoletta A(2), Moliterni S(2), 
Errico S(2).

Author information:
(1)ENEA Italian National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable 
Economic Development, Trisaia Research Centre, S.S. 106 Jonica, km 419,500, 
75026, Rotondella, MT, Italy. paola.sangiorgio@enea.it.
(2)ENEA Italian National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable 
Economic Development, Trisaia Research Centre, S.S. 106 Jonica, km 419,500, 
75026, Rotondella, MT, Italy.

Erratum in
    Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2022 Jan;29(3):4785. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-021-17393-7.

The increase in the world population leads to rising demand and consumption of 
plastic raw materials; only a small percentage of plastics is recovered and 
recycled, increasing the quantity of waste released into the environment and 
losing its economic value. The plastics represent a great opportunity in the 
circular perspective of their reuse and recycling. Research is moving, on the 
one hand, to implement sustainable systems for plastic waste management and on 
the other to find new non-fossil-based plastics such as polyhydroxyalkanoates 
(PHAs). In this review, we focus our attention on Tenebrio molitor (TM) as a 
valuable solution for plastic biodegradation and biological recovery of new 
biopolymers (e.g. PHA) from plastic-producing microorganisms, exploiting its 
highly diversified gut microbiota. TM's use for plastic pollution management is 
controversial. However, TM microbiota is recognised as a source of 
plastic-degrading microorganisms. TM-based plastic degradation is improved by 
co-feeding with food loss and waste as a dietary energy source, thus valorising 
these low-value substrates in a circular economy perspective. TM as a bioreactor 
is a valid alternative to traditional PHA recovery systems with the advantage of 
obtaining, in addition to highly pure PHA, protein biomass and rearing waste 
from which to produce fertilisers, chitin/chitosan, biochar and biodiesel. 
Finally, we describe the critical aspects of these TM-based approaches, mainly 
related to TM mass production, eventual food safety problems, possible release 
of microplastics and lack of dedicated legislation.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-021-15944-6
PMCID: PMC8476375
PMID: 34453255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


95. Methods Protoc. 2021 Jun 21;4(2):43. doi: 10.3390/mps4020043.

Method for Zero-Waste Circular Economy Using Worms for Plastic Agriculture: 
Augmenting Polystyrene Consumption and Plant Growth.

Gan SK(1)(2), Phua SX(2), Yeo JY(2), Heng ZS(2), Xing Z(3).

Author information:
(1)APD SKEG Pte Ltd., Singapore 439444, Singapore.
(2)Antibody & Product Development Lab, EDDC & BII, Agency for Science, 
Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore 138672, Singapore.
(3)Institute of Materials Research and Engineering, A*STAR, 2 Fusionopolis Way, 
#08-03, Singapore 138634, Singapore.

Polystyrene (PS) is one of the major plastics contributing to environmental 
pollution with its durability and resistance to natural biodegradation. Recent 
research showed that mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) and superworms (Zophobas 
morio) are naturally able to consume PS as a carbon food source and degrade them 
without observable toxic effects. In this study, we explored the effects of 
possible food additives and use of worm frass as potential plant fertilizers. We 
found that small amounts of sucrose and bran increased PS consumption and that 
the worm frass alone could support dragon fruit cacti (Hylocereus undatus) 
growth, with superworm frass in particular, supporting better growth and rooting 
than mealworm frass and control media over a fortnight. As known fish and 
poultry feed, these findings present worms as a natural solution to 
simultaneously tackle both the global plastic problem and urban farming issue in 
a zero-waste sustainable bioremediation cycle.

DOI: 10.3390/mps4020043
PMCID: PMC8293350
PMID: 34205648

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


96. Front Vet Sci. 2021 Jun 4;8:675572. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2021.675572. eCollection 
2021.

Effect of Cooking Techniques on the in vitro Protein Digestibility, Fatty Acid 
Profile, and Oxidative Status of Mealworms (Tenebrio molitor).

Mancini S(1)(2), Mattioli S(3), Paolucci S(1)(4), Fratini F(1)(2), Dal Bosco 
A(3), Tuccinardi T(2)(4), Paci G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Sciences, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(2)Interdepartmental Research Center "Nutraceuticals and Food for Health", 
University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(3)Department of Agricultural, Food and Environmental Science, University of 
Perugia, Perugia, Italy.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.

Tenebrio molitor (T. molitor) (mealworm) larvae are one of the most promising 
insects for feed-food purposes. Mealworms are rich in several macro and micro 
nutritional elements and can be practically reared on side stream substrates. In 
this study, the effects of seven different cooking techniques were tested on the 
nutritional value of mealworms focusing the attention on protein digestibility, 
fatty acid (FA) profile, and oxidative status. Uncooked larvae (UC) were used as 
control and compared to two combinations of temperature/time in oven cooking 
(70°C for 30 min, OC70-30, 150°C for 10 min, OC150-10), two methods of frying 
(mealworms fried in sunflower oil as deep fry, DF, or pan fry, PF), microwaving 
(MW), boiling (in plastic bag under vacuum, BO), and steaming (ST). Proximate 
composition, in vitro digestibility (gastric and duodenal), FA profile, and 
oxidative status (tocopherol and tocotrienol, carbonyl, and lipid oxidation) 
were then tested. Cooking technique affected all the tested parameters. As 
expected, cooking affected proximate composition in relation to the method 
applied (dry matter increased after oven cooking and frying; lipids increased by 
frying). In vitro digestion revealed the highest value for the OC70-30 method, 
followed by UC and ST. Deep frying revealed the worst digestibility percentage. 
FA profile was deeply affected by the cooking technique, with general decrease 
in SFA and MUFA. The highest modifications in FA profile were revealed in ST 
larvae with an increased percentage of linoleic acid linked to the lowering of 
SFA and MUFA contents. Furthermore, deep frying larvae in sunflower oil 
increased the relative abundance of PUFAs. Tocols values were higher in DF and 
MW groups than PF (about 6-fold more) and all other groups (7-fold more). 
Carbonyls increased with oven cooking (OC150-10 and OC70-30), whereas the values 
were lower with frying and similar to ST and UC. Lipid oxidation was highest as 
well in OC150-10 but similar to frying methods (DF and PF). Based on the 
obtained results, it can be concluded that mealworm larvae surely meet human 
nutritional requirements, but the cooking method must be carefully chosen to 
maintain a high nutritional value.

Copyright © 2021 Mancini, Mattioli, Paolucci, Fratini, Dal Bosco, Tuccinardi and 
Paci.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2021.675572
PMCID: PMC8213019
PMID: 34150894

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


97. Front Immunol. 2021 May 31;12:667664. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.667664. 
eCollection 2021.

Autophagy in Tenebrio molitor Immunity: Conserved Antimicrobial Functions in 
Insect Defenses.

Jo YH(1), Lee JH(1), Patnaik BB(2), Keshavarz M(3), Lee YS(4), Han YS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biology, Institute of Environmentally-Friendly 
Agriculture (IEFA), College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju, South Korea.
(2)P. G. Department of Biosciences and Biotechnology, Fakir Mohan University, 
Balasore, India.
(3)Department of Evolutionary Biology, Institute for Biology-Zoology, Free 
University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Department of Biology, College of Natural Sciences, Soonchunhyang University, 
Asan City, South Korea.

The yellow mealworm beetle (Tenebrio molitor) has been exploited as an 
experimental model to unravel the intricacies of cellular and humoral immunity 
against pathogenic infections. Studies on this insect model have provided 
valuable insights into the phenotypic plasticity of immune defenses against 
parasites and pathogens. It has thus been possible to characterize the 
hemocoelic defenses of T. molitor that rely on the recognition of 
non-self-components of pathogens by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs). The 
subsequent signaling cascade activating pathways such as the NF-κB controlled by 
Toll and IMD pathways lead to the synthesis of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), 
onset of hemocyte-driven phagocytosis, and activation of the prophenoloxidase 
cascade regulating the process of melanization. Nevertheless, the activation of 
autophagy-mediated defenses of T. molitor against the facultative intracellular 
gram-positive bacterium Listeria monocytogenes provides clear evidence of the 
existence of a cross-talk between autophagy and the IMD pathway. Moreover, the 
identification of several autophagy-related genes (Atgs) in T. molitor 
transcriptome and expressed sequence tag (EST) databases has contributed to the 
understanding of the autophagy-signaling cascade triggered by L. monocytogenes 
challenge. Providing further evidence of the cross-talk hypothesis, TmRelish has 
been shown to be required not only for regulating the synthesis of AMPs through 
the PGRP-LE/IMD pathway activation but also for the expression of Atgs in T. 
molitor larvae following L. monocytogenes challenge. Notably, L. monocytogenes 
can stimulate the T. molitor innate immune system by producing molecules 
recognized by the multifunctional PRR (TmPGRP-LE), which stimulates 
intracellular activation of the IMD pathway and autophagy. Considering the 
conservation of autophagy components involved in combating intracellular 
pathogens, it will be interesting to extrapolate a dynamic cross-talk model of 
immune activation. This review summarizes the most significant findings on the 
regulation of autophagy in T. molitor during L. monocytogenes infection and on 
the role of the innate immunity machinery, including the NF-κB pathway, in the 
control of pathogenic load.

Copyright © 2021 Jo, Lee, Patnaik, Keshavarz, Lee and Han.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.667664
PMCID: PMC8202003
PMID: 34135896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


98. Insects. 2021 May 8;12(5):423. doi: 10.3390/insects12050423.

Morphological Characterisation of Haemocytes in the Mealworm Beetle Tenebrio 
molitor (Coleoptera, Tenebrionidae).

Vommaro ML(1), Kurtz J(2), Giglio A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ecology and Earth Science, University of Calabria, 
87036 Rende, Italy.
(2)Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity, University of Münster, 48149 
Münster, Germany.

The immunocompetence of the mealworm beetle Tenebrio molitor has been well 
investigated at molecular and physiological levels, but information on 
morphological and functional characteristics of its immune cells (haemocytes) is 
still scarce and fragmentary. This study provides an updated overview of the 
morphology of circulating immune cells from mealworm beetle adults, using light 
and transmission electron microscopy. Based on their affinities for May-Grünwald 
Giemsa stain, haemocytes were defined as either eosinophilic, basophilic or 
neutral. Ultrastructural descriptions allowed to detect four main cell types in 
the haemolymph: prohaemocytes, plasmatocytes, granular cells and oenocytoids. 
The morphological plasticity of haemocytes and the evidence of mitotic 
circulating cells, intermediate cell stages, as well as autophagic activities 
suggest haemocyte proliferation, turnover and transdifferentiation as constantly 
active processes in the haemolymph. Cytochemical tests revealed differences in 
the distribution of carbohydrates among cell types underling the great 
plasticity of the immune response and the direct involvement of circulating 
immune cells in the resource allocation. In addition, our results provide a 
detailed morphological description of vesicle trafficking, macro- and 
microautophagy, apoptotic and necrotic processes, confirming the suitability of 
T. molitor haemocytes as a model for studying evolutionarily conserved cellular 
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.3390/insects12050423
PMCID: PMC8151185
PMID: 34066849

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


99. Sci Total Environ. 2021 Oct 1;789:147915. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.147915. 
Epub 2021 May 21.

Confirmation of biodegradation of low-density polyethylene in dark- versus 
yellow- mealworms (larvae of Tenebrio obscurus versus Tenebrio molitor) via. gut 
microbe-independent depolymerization.

Yang SS(1), Ding MQ(2), Zhang ZR(3), Ding J(2), Bai SW(2), Cao GL(2), Zhao L(2), 
Pang JW(4), Xing DF(2), Ren NQ(2), Wu WM(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic 
address: shanshanyang@hit.edu.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(3)College of Wildlife and Protected Area, Northeast Forestry University, Harbin 
150040, China.
(4)China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group, Beijing 100089, 
China.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Chemistry, 
William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable 
Development & Global Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, 
USA. Electronic address: billwu@stanford.edu.cn.

Tenebrio obscurus (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) larvae are capable of biodegrading 
polystyrene (PS) but their capacity for polyethylene (PE) degradation and 
pattern of depolymerization remains unknown. This study fed the larvae of T. 
obscurus and Tenebrio molitor, which have PE degrading capacity, two commercial 
low-density PE (LDPE) foams i.e., PE-1 and PE-2, with respective number-average 
molecular weights (Mn) of 28.9 and 27.3 kDa and weight-average molecular weights 
(Mw) of 342.0 and 264.1 kDa, over a 36-day period at ambient temperature. The Mw 
of residual PE in frass (excrement) of T. obscurus, fed with PE-1 and PE-2, 
decreased by 45.4 ± 0.4% and 34.8 ± 0.3%, respectively, while the respective 
decrease in frass of T. molitor was 43.3 ± 0.5% and 31.7 ± 0.5%. Data analysis 
showed that low molecular weight PE (<5.0 kDa) was rapidly digested while longer 
chain portions (>10.0 kDa) were broken down or cleaved, indicating a broad 
depolymerization pattern. Mass balance analysis indicated nearly 40% of ingested 
LDPE was digested to CO2. Antibiotic suppression of gut microbes in T. molitor 
and T. obscurus larvae with gentamicin obviously reduced their gut microbes on 
day 15 but did not stop depolymerization because the Mn, Mw and size- average 
molecular weight (Mz) decreased. This confirmed that LDPE biodegradation in T. 
obscurus was independent of gut microbes as observed during previous PS 
degradation in T. molitor, suggesting that the intestinal digestive system could 
perform LDPE depolymerization. High-throughput sequencing revealed significant 
shifts in the gut microbial community during bran-fed and unfed conditions in 
response to LDPE feeding in both Tenebrio species. The respective predominant 
gut genera of Spiroplasma sp. and Enterococcus sp. were observed in LDPE-fed T. 
molitor and T. obscurus larvae.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.147915
PMID: 34049145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interest.


100. Chemosphere. 2021 Oct;281:130840. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2021.130840. Epub 
2021 May 11.

Biodegradation of expanded polystyrene by mealworm larvae under different 
feeding strategies evaluated by metabolic profiling using GC-TOF-MS.

Tsochatzis ED(1), Berggreen IE(2), Nørgaard JV(2), Theodoridis G(3), Dalsgaard 
TK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, 
Aarhus N, Denmark; CiFOOD, Centre for Innovative Food Research, Aarhus 
University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, Aarhus N, Denmark. Electronic address: 
emmanouil.tsochatzis@food.au.dk.
(2)Aarhus University, Department of Animal Science, Blichers Alle 20, 8830, 
Tjele, Denmark.
(3)FoodOmicsGR Research Infrastructure, AUTh Node, Center for Interdisciplinary 
Research and Innovation (CIRI-AUTH), Balkan Center B1.4, 10th Km 
Thessaloniki-Thermi Rd, P.O. Box 8318, GR 57001, Thessaloniki, Greece; 
Department of Chemistry, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124, 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(4)Department of Food Science, Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, 
Aarhus N, Denmark; CiFOOD, Centre for Innovative Food Research, Aarhus 
University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200, Aarhus N, Denmark; CBIO, Centre for 
Circular Bioeconomy, Aarhus University, Blichers Allé 20, 8800, Tjele, Denmark.

The present study investigated the biodegradation of polystyrene (PS) plastic by 
mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) on different diets followed by untargeted screening 
of larvae gut intestine tissue and frass (manure and feed residuals) to 
investigate the existence of polymer-generated organic residues. Three different 
diets, consisting of PS, rolled barley and water were tested. PS degradation 
rates ranged from 16% to 23% within 15 days, with no statistical differences in 
survival rates. The larvae fed with ad libitum barley:PS (20:1 w/w) and water 
had the highest growth rate, while higher PS consumption was observed for 
barley:PS of 4:1 w/w. A GC-TOF-MS analysis revealed no contaminating substances 
in the gut intestine tissue, nor styrene or PS oligomers, whilst several 
bioactive compounds and traces of alkanes, mostly with small carbon chains, were 
present. Metabolomics analysis on the collected frass, either on the lipophilic 
(CHCl3) or the polar fraction (MeOH-H2O) was performed. Styrene and PS oligomers 
(dimers, trimers) were identified, though in a relatively low total amount, up 
to a total of 346.0 ng/mg 2,4 di-tert butylphenol was identified in both frass 
and tissue, coming from the PS polymer (Non-intentionally added substances; 
NIAS). Finally, in the polar fraction of frass, bioactive molecules (fatty 
acids, amides) were identified, together with several hydrocarbons, mostly with 
longer carbon chains. The formation of these substances indicated enzymatic and 
biochemical activity in the larvae-gut intestine. It was shown that degrading 
and contaminating organic compounds occur at low levels, in both gut intestine 
and frass, during bio-degradation of PS.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2021.130840
PMID: 34023760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Hazard Mater. 2021 Aug 15;416:125803. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.125803. Epub 
2021 Apr 6.

Biodegradation of polylactic acid by yellow mealworms (larvae of Tenebrio 
molitor) via resource recovery: A sustainable approach for waste management.

Peng BY(1), Chen Z(1), Chen J(1), Zhou X(1), Wu WM(2), Zhang Y(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, United States. 
Electronic address: Billwu@stanford.edu.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China. Electronic address: Zhangyalei@tongji.edu.cn.

Polylactic acid (PLA) is biodegraded rapidly under composting or thermophilic 
temperature but slowly under natural conditions with substantial microplastics 
generated. In this study, we examined the feasibility of PLA biodegradation and 
developed a novel approach for PLA waste management using yellow mealworms 
(Tenebrio molitor larvae) to achieve biodegradation and resource recovery 
simultaneously. Results confirmed PLA biodegradation in mealworms as sole PLA 
and PLA-bran mixtures (10%, 20%, 30% and 50% PLA, wt/wt). Feeding PLA-bran 
mixtures supported the larval development with higher survival rates and lower 
cannibal rates than feeding PLA only at ambient temperature. The PLA conversion 
efficiency was 90.9% with 100% PLA diet and was around 81.5-86.9% with PLA-bran 
mixtures. A peak insect biomass yield was achieved at a PLA ratio of 20%. PLA 
biodegradation was verified via detection of chemical and thermal modifications. 
Gut microbial community analysis indicated that intestinal communities shifted 
with PLA biodegradation, resulting in clusters with OTUs unique to the PLA diet. 
Based on these findings, we propose a circular approach for PLA waste management 
via resource recovery of used PLA as the feedstock for insect biomass 
production, management of mealworm excrement waste as fertilizer, and 
utilization of agricultural products for PLA production.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.125803
PMID: 33882390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Food Chem. 2021 May 30;345:128846. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.128846. Epub 
2020 Dec 10.

The impact of polystyrene consumption by edible insects Tenebrio molitor and 
Zophobas morio on their nutritional value, cytotoxicity, and oxidative stress 
parameters.

Zielińska E(1), Zieliński D(2), Jakubczyk A(3), Karaś M(4), Pankiewicz U(5), 
Flasz B(6), Dziewięcka M(7), Lewicki S(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Analysis and Evaluation of Food Quality, University of Life 
Sciences in Lublin, Skromna Str. 8, 20-704 Lublin, Poland. Electronic address: 
ewelina.zielinska@up.lublin.pl.
(2)Department of Animal Ethology and Wildlife Management, University of Life 
Sciences in Lublin, Akademicka Str. 13, 20-950 Lublin, Poland. Electronic 
address: damian.zielinski@up.lublin.pl.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Food Chemistry, University of Life Sciences in 
Lublin, Skromna Str. 8, 20-704 Lublin, Poland. Electronic address: 
anna.jakubczyk@up.lublin.pl.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Food Chemistry, University of Life Sciences in 
Lublin, Skromna Str. 8, 20-704 Lublin, Poland. Electronic address: 
monika.karas@up.lublin.pl.
(5)Department of Analysis and Evaluation of Food Quality, University of Life 
Sciences in Lublin, Skromna Str. 8, 20-704 Lublin, Poland. Electronic address: 
urszula.pankiewicz@up.lublin.pl.
(6)Institute of Biology, Biotechnology and Environmental Protection, University 
of Silesia in Katowice, Bankowa 9, 40-007 Katowice, Poland. Electronic address: 
bflasz@us.edu.pl.
(7)Institute of Biology, Biotechnology and Environmental Protection, University 
of Silesia in Katowice, Bankowa 9, 40-007 Katowice, Poland. Electronic address: 
marta.dziewiecka@us.edu.pl.
(8)Department of Regenerative Medicine and Cell Biology, Military Institute of 
Hygiene and Epidemiology, Kozielska 4, 01-163 Warsaw, Poland; Kazimierz Pulaski 
University of Technology and Humanities, Faculty of Medical Sciences and Health 
Sciences, 26-600 Radom, Poland. Electronic address: slawomir.lewicki@wihe.pl.

The objective of this study was to determine of nutritional value, in vitro 
cytotoxicity, and oxidative stress parameters in cells of selected insect 
species (Tenebrio molitor and Zophobas morio) after 30 days of Styrofoam 
consumption. Furthermore, part of our research is also a consumer survey on the 
willingness to eat insects fed with Styrofoam (EPS 80). Mealworms fed with 
Styrofoam were determined to have higher protein (48.66 ± 0.92%) and ash content 
(4.81 ± 0.22%) with reduced fat (24.05 ± 0.55%) and carbohydrate content 
(2.95 ± 0.15%) than insects with a conventional diet (48.66 ± 0.92, 2.82 ± 0.12, 
43.74 ± 0.77, and 4.78 ± 0.18, respectively) while in the case of superworms, no 
significant difference in nutrient composition was observed. Moreover, Styrofoam 
has no influence on the health status of gut cells in examined insects. 
Additionally, in studied concentrations of insects extracts standardized for 
protein replacement of the traditional insect diet with polystyrene foam did not 
increase the cytotoxic properties.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.128846
PMID: 33601659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Methods Enzymol. 2021;648:95-120. doi: 10.1016/bs.mie.2020.12.029. Epub 2021 Jan 
16.

Characterization of biodegradation of plastics in insect larvae.

Wu WM(1), Criddle CS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, United States. Electronic address: billwu@stanford.edu.
(2)Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, United States.

Biodegradation of plastics has been observed at rapid turnover rate by some 
insect larvae, especially those of Coleoptera, in particular Tenebrionidae. 
Tenebrio molitor larva is well studied and capable of biodegrading polystyrene 
(PS), polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in 
their digestive intestine in synergy with their gut microflora. This chapter 
includes the methods, protocols, and procedures used to characterize 
biodegradation of plastics in T. molitor larvae and their gut microbiomes with 
polystyrene as the model feedstock. The methods used can be expanded to enable 
investigation of other plastics and/or insects.

© 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.mie.2020.12.029
PMID: 33579419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Environ Sci Technol. 2021 Feb 2;55(3):2027-2036. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.0c04952. 
Epub 2021 Jan 12.

Enhanced Bioavailability and Microbial Biodegradation of Polystyrene in an 
Enrichment Derived from the Gut Microbiome of Tenebrio molitor (Mealworm 
Larvae).

Brandon AM(1), Garcia AM(2), Khlystov NA(2), Wu WM(1), Criddle CS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, California 94305, United States.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305, United States.

As the global threat of plastic pollution has grown in scale and urgency, so 
have efforts to find sustainable and efficient solutions. Research conducted 
over the past few years has identified gut environments within insect larvae, 
including Tenebrio molitor (yellow mealworms), as microenvironments uniquely 
suited to rapid plastic biodegradation. However, there is currently limited 
understanding of how the insect host and its gut microbiome collaborate to 
create an environment conducive to plastic biodegradation. In this work, we 
provide evidence that T. molitor secretes one or more emulsifying factor(s) 
(30-100 kDa) that mediate plastic bioavailability. We also demonstrate that the 
insect gut microbiome secretes factor(s) (<30 kDa) that enhance respiration on 
polystyrene (PS). We apply these insights to culture PS-fed gut microbiome 
enrichments, with elevated rates of respiration and degradation compared to the 
unenriched gut microbiome. Within the enrichment, we identified eight unique gut 
microorganisms associated with PS biodegradation including Citrobacter freundii, 
Serratia marcescens, and Klebsiella aerogenes. Our results demonstrate that both 
the mealworm itself and its gut microbiome contribute to accelerated plastic 
biodegradation. This work provides new insights into insect-mediated mechanisms 
of plastic degradation and potential strategies for cultivation of 
plastic-degrading microorganisms in future investigations and scale-up.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.0c04952
PMID: 33434009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Polymers (Basel). 2020 Dec 23;13(1):17. doi: 10.3390/polym13010017.

Polystyrene Biodegradation by Tenebrio molitor Larvae: Identification of 
Generated Substances Using a GC-MS Untargeted Screening Method.

Tsochatzis E(1), Lopes JA(2), Gika H(3)(4)(5), Theodoridis G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Centre of Innovative Food Research (iFood), 
Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 48, 8200 Aarhus N, Denmark.
(2)European Commission, Joint Research Centre (JRC), 2440 Geel, Belgium.
(3)Department of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(5)FoodOmicsGR Research Infrastructure, AUTh Node, Center for Interdisciplinary 
Research and Innovation (CIRI-AUTH), Balkan Center B1.4, 10th Km 
Thessaloniki-Thermi Rd, P.O. Box 8318, 57001 Thessaloniki, Greece.

A GC-MS method has been applied to screen and evaluate the generation of 
chemical compounds during the biodegradation of polystyrene (PS) with Tenebrio 
molitor larvae. Several resulting compounds have been identified, including 
trimers 2,4,6-triphenyl-1-hexene and 1,3,5-triphenylcyclohexane, the volatiles 
acetophenone and cumyl alcohol, and 2,4-di-tert butylphenol, a non-intentionally 
added substance (NIAS) present in the plastic material. The PS monomers styrene 
and α-methyl styrene were also identified in the extracts. Bioactive molecules 
present in the biomass of the studied insects were identified, such as the free 
fatty acids myristic, palmitic, and oleic acid. Undecanoic acid was also found, 
but in lower mass fractions. Finally, biochemically formatted amides resulting 
from their respective fatty acids were identified, namely tetradecanamide, 
hexadecanamide and oleamide. The formation of all these substances seems to 
suggest enzymatic and biochemical activity occurring during the biodegradation 
of PS, and their amounts varied throughout the experience. The overall 
degradation rate of PS resulted in a 13% rate, which highlights the potential of 
biorecycling using these insects.

DOI: 10.3390/polym13010017
PMCID: PMC7793077
PMID: 33374608

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


106. Sci Total Environ. 2021 Feb 20;756:144087. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.144087. 
Epub 2020 Nov 26.

Biodegradation of polypropylene by yellow mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) and 
superworms (Zophobas atratus) via gut-microbe-dependent depolymerization.

Yang SS(1), Ding MQ(2), He L(2), Zhang CH(2), Li QX(2), Xing DF(2), Cao GL(2), 
Zhao L(2), Ding J(2), Ren NQ(2), Wu WM(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China. Electronic 
address: shanshanyang@hit.edu.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Chemistry, 
William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable 
Development & Global Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, 
USA. Electronic address: billwu@stanford.edu.

Polypropylene (PP), a fossil-based polyolefin plastics widely used worldwide, is 
non-hydrolyzable and resistant to biodegradation as a major source of plastic 
pollutants in environment. This study focused on feasibility of PP 
biodegradation in the larvae of two species of darkling beetles (Coleoptera: 
Tenebrionidae) i.e., yellow mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) and superworms 
(Zophobas atratus) using PP foam with number-, weight-, and size-average 
molecular weights (Mn, Mw, and Mz) of 109.8, 356.2, and 765.0 kDa, respectively. 
The tests were conducted in duplicates with respective larvae (300 T. molitor 
and 200 Z. atratus each incubator) at 25 °C and 65% humidity for over a 35-day 
period. The larvae of T. molitor and Z. atratus fed with PP foam as sole diet 
consumed PP at 1.0 ± 0.4 and 3.1 ± 0.4 mg 100 larvae-1 days-1, respectively; 
when fed the PP foam plus wheat bran, the consumption rates were enhanced by 
68.11% and 39.70%, respectively. Gel permeation chromatography analyses of the 
frass of T. molitor and Z. atratus larvae fed PP only indicated that Mw was 
decreased by 20.4 ± 0.8% and 9.0 ± 0.4%; Mn was increased by 12.1 ± 0.4% and 
61.5 ± 2.5%; Mz was decreased by 33.8 ± 1.5% and 32.0 ± 1.1%, indicating limited 
extent depolymerization. Oxidation and biodegradation of PP was confirmed 
through analysis of the residual PP in frass. Depression of gut microbes with 
the antibiotic gentamicin inhibited PP depolymerization in both T. molitor and 
Z. atratus larvae. High throughput 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that Citrobacter 
sp. and Enterobacter sp. were associated with PP diets in the gut microbiome of 
Z. atratus larvae while Kluyvera was predominant in the T. molitor larvae. The 
results indicated that PP can be biodegraded in both T. molitor and Z. atratus 
larvae via gut microbe-dependent depolymerization with diversified microbiomes.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.144087
PMID: 33280873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


107. Environ Int. 2020 Dec;145:106106. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2020.106106. Epub 2020 
Sep 15.

Biodegradation of Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) in Tenebrio molitor (Coleoptera: 
Tenebrionidae) larvae.

Peng BY(1), Chen Z(1), Chen J(1), Yu H(2), Zhou X(1), Criddle CS(2), Wu WM(3), 
Zhang Y(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, United States.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, United States. 
Electronic address: Billwu@stanford.edu.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China. Electronic address: Zhangyalei@tongji.edu.cn.

Tenebrio molitor larvae (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) are capable of 
depolymerizing and biodegrading polystyrene and polyethylene. We tested for 
biodegradation of Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) in T. molitor larvae using rigid PVC 
microplastic powders (MPs) (70-150 μm) with weight-, number-, and size-average 
molecular weights (Mw, Mn and Mz) of 143,800, 82,200 and 244,900 Da, 
respectively, as sole diet at 25 °C. The ingestion rate was 36.62 ± 6.79 mg MPs 
100 larvae-1 d-1 during a 16-day period. The egested frass contained about 34.6% 
of residual PVC polymer, and chlorinated organic carbons. Gel permeation 
chromatography (GPC) analysis indicated a decrease in the Mw, Mn and Mz by 
33.4%, 32.8%, and 36.4%, respectively, demonstrating broad depolymerization. 
Biodegradation and oxidation of the PVC MPs was supported by the formation of OC 
and OC functional groups using frontier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) 
and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR), and by significant changes in the 
thermal characteristics using thermo-gravimetric analysis (TGA). Chloride 
released was counted as about 2.9% of the PVC ingested, indicating limited 
mineralization of the PVC MPs. T. molitor larvae survived with PVC as sole diet 
at up to 80% over 5 weeks but did not complete their life cycle with a low 
survival rate of 39% in three months. With PVC plus co-diet wheat bran (1:5, 
w/w), they completed growth and pupation as same as bran only in 91 days. 
Suppression of gut microbes with the antibiotic gentamicin severely inhibited 
PVC depolymerization, indicating that the PVC depolymerization/biodegradation 
was gut microbe-dependent. Significant population shifts and clustering in the 
gut microbiome and unique OTUs were observed after PVC MPs consumption. The 
results indicated that T. molitor larvae are capable of performing broad 
depolymerization/biodegradation but limited mineralization of PVC MPs.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2020.106106
PMID: 32947161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Chemosphere. 2021 Jan;262:127818. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.127818. Epub 
2020 Jul 30.

Biodegradation of expanded polystyrene and low-density polyethylene foams in 
larvae of Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae): Broad versus 
limited extent depolymerization and microbe-dependence versus independence.

Yang L(1), Gao J(2), Liu Y(3), Zhuang G(2), Peng X(4), Wu WM(5), Zhuang X(6).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Environmental Biotechnology, Research Center for 
Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100085, China; 
College of Biological Sciences and Technology, Beijing Forestry University, 
Beijing, 100083, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Environmental Biotechnology, Research Center for 
Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100085, China; 
College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, 100049, China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Environmental Biotechnology, Research Center for 
Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100085, China.
(4)College of Biological Sciences and Technology, Beijing Forestry University, 
Beijing, 100083, China.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305-4020, United States. 
Electronic address: Billwu@stanford.edu.
(6)CAS Key Laboratory of Environmental Biotechnology, Research Center for 
Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100085, China; 
College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, 100049, China. Electronic address: xlzhuang@rcees.ac.cn.

Yellow mealworms (Tenebrio molitor larvae) are capable of biodegrading 
polystyrene (PS) and low-density polyethylene (LDPE). This study tested 
biodegradation of one expanded PS (EPS) with a weight-average molecular weight 
(Mw) 256.4 kDa and two LDPE foams with respective Mw of 130.6 kDa (PE-1) and 
288.7 kDa (PE-2) in T. monitor larvae obtained in Beijing, China. The larvae 
consumed EPS and both LDPEs over a 60 day. Fourier transform infrared 
spectroscopy and thermogravimetric analyses of frass confirmed the formation of 
new oxygen-containing functional groups, as well as a change in physical 
property and chemical modification, indicating that biodegradation of EPS and 
LDPE occurred. Gel permeation chromatography analysis confirmed broad 
depolymerization of EPS and PE-1 (i.e., a decrease in both Mw and a 
number-average molecular weight (Mn)) but revealed limited extent 
depolymerization of PE-2 (i.e., increase in Mn and decrease in Mw). For all 
materials, the size-average molecular weight (Mz) was decreased. Biodegradation 
and oxidation of EPS and LDPE were confirmed using FTIR and TGA analysis. 
Depression of gut microbes by the antibiotic gentamicin resulted in significant 
inhibition of EPS depolymerization but did not stop LDPE depolymerization, 
resulting in the increase in Mn and revealing that PS biodegradation was gut 
microbe-dependent but LDPE biodegradation was less dependent or independent of 
gut microbes. Gut microbial community analysis indicated that, as expected, 
under different dietary conditions, the intestinal flora significantly shifted 
to communities associated with biodegradation of EPS and LDPE. The results 
indicated the complexity and limitation of biodegradation of plastics in 
plastics-eating T. molitor larvae.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.127818
PMID: 32771707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


109. Environ Pollut. 2020 Nov;266(Pt 1):115206. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.115206. 
Epub 2020 Jul 10.

Biodegradation of low-density polyethylene and polystyrene in superworms, larvae 
of Zophobas atratus (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae): Broad and limited extent 
depolymerization.

Peng BY(1), Li Y(2), Fan R(2), Chen Z(1), Chen J(1), Brandon AM(2), Criddle 
CS(2), Zhang Y(1), Wu WM(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai, 200092, 
China.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305-4020, USA.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305-4020, USA. Electronic 
address: Billwu@stanford.edu.

Larvae of Zophobas atratus (synonym as Z. morio, or Z. rugipes Kirsch, 
Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) are capable of eating foams of expanded polystyrene 
(EPS) and low-density polyethylene (LDPE), similar to larvae of Tenebrio 
molitor. We evaluated biodegradation of EPS and LDPE in the larvae from 
Guangzhou, China (strain G) and Marion, Illinois, U.S. (strain M) at 25 °C. 
Within 33 days, strain G larvae ingested respective LDPE and PS foams as their 
sole diet with respective consumption rates of 58.7 ± 1.8 mg and 61.5 ± 1.6 mg 
100 larvae-1d-1. Meanwhile, strain M required co-diet (bran or cabbage) with 
respective consumption rates of 57.1 ± 2.5 mg and 30.3 ± 7.7 mg 100 larvae-1 
d-1. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, proton nuclear magnetic resonance, 
and thermal gravimetric analyses indicated oxidation and biodegradation of LDPE 
and EPS in the two strains. Gel permeation chromatography analysis revealed that 
strain G performed broad depolymerization of EPS, i.e., both weight-average 
molecular weight (Mw) and number-average molecular weight (Mn) of residual 
polymers decreased, while strain M performed limited extent depolymerization, 
i.e., Mw and Mn increased. However, both strains performed limited extent 
depolymerization of LDPE. After feeding antibiotic gentamicin, gut microbes were 
suppressed, and Mw and Mn of residual LDPE and EPS in frass were basically 
unchanged, implying a dependence on gut microbes for 
depolymerization/biodegradation. Our discoveries indicate that gut 
microbe-dependent LDPE and EPS biodegradation is present within Z. atratus in 
Tenebrionidae, but that the limited extent depolymerization pattern resulted in 
undigested polymers with high molecular weights in egested frass.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.115206
PMID: 32682160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interest.


110. Sci Rep. 2020 Jul 8;10(1):11224. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-67363-1.

Evaluation of various commodities for the development of the yellow mealworm, 
Tenebrio molitor.

Rumbos CI(1)(2), Karapanagiotidis IT(2), Mente E(2), Psofakis P(2), Athanassiou 
CG(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture Crop Production and Rural Environment, School of 
Agricultural Sciences, University of Thessaly, Fytokou Str., 38446, Volos, 
Greece.
(2)Department of Ichthyology and Aquatic Environment, School of Agricultural 
Sciences, University of Thessaly, Fytokou Str., 38446, Volos, Greece.
(3)Department of Agriculture Crop Production and Rural Environment, School of 
Agricultural Sciences, University of Thessaly, Fytokou Str., 38446, Volos, 
Greece. athanassiou@uth.gr.

We evaluated the suitability of forty-four commodities (i.e., cereal flours and 
meals, non-flour, cereal commodities, legumes and various commodities of 
vegetative and animal origin) as oviposition and feeding substrates for the 
yellow mealworm, Tenebrio molitor. Τen T. molitor adults were introduced in 
plastic vials containing 30 g of each commodity. At the end of the 1 week 
period, all adults were removed, and mortality was determined; then the vials 
were further incubated for additional 9 weeks. After this time, the vials were 
opened, and the larvae of each vial were separated from the feeding substrate, 
counted and weighed as a group. The efficiency of ingested food conversion was 
calculated for each substrate. Finally, proximate composition was calculated to 
determine the nutrient components of the feeding substrates tested and the T. 
molitor larvae that fed on various selected substrates. In general, adult 
reproduction was clearly favoured by most amylaceous substrates tested, which 
was in contrast to the tested legumes on which fewer offspring were produced. 
Similar effects were observed for larval development. Feeding on selected 
substrates exerted an impact on the nutrient composition of T. molitor larvae, 
with a high protein content of the substrate usually resulting in a high protein 
content of the larvae.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-67363-1
PMCID: PMC7343874
PMID: 32641803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare that the authors have no competing 
interests as defined by Nature Research, or other interests that might be 
perceived to influence the results and/or discussion reported in this paper.


111. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Sep 15;735:139521. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.139521. 
Epub 2020 May 19.

Technological application potential of polyethylene and polystyrene 
biodegradation by macro-organisms such as mealworms and wax moth larvae.

Billen P(1), Khalifa L(2), Van Gerven F(3), Tavernier S(3), Spatari S(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Antwerp, Faculty of Applied Engineering, iPRACS, 
Groenenborgerlaan 171, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium. Electronic address: 
pieter.billen@uantwerpen.be.
(2)Technion, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Haifa 32000, Israel.
(3)University of Antwerp, Faculty of Applied Engineering, iPRACS, 
Groenenborgerlaan 171, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium.

Multiple recent reports showed accelerated biodegradation of polyethylene by 
employing macro-organisms such as mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) and larvae of the 
greater wax moth (Galleria mellonella), which seemingly chew and digest the 
plastic. Nevertheless, doubts regarding analytical data were published, and 
results are not universally transferrable. This paper aims at gaining 
mechanistic insights and exploring the technological prospects of potential 
future optimized biodegradation. We used a variety of experimental setups with 
both species, using both live specimens and homogenated paste, to cover a broad 
spectrum of potential technological setups, and performed gravimetric, 
microscopic and spectroscopic analyses. Live larvae showed a preference for 
specific substrates, yet we argue by comparison to other food sources, evidenced 
also by energetic uptake, that a diet of LDPE is insufficient for growth. We did 
not detect mass loss when homogenate paste is brought in contact with LDPE 
films, nor significant traces of ethylene glycol. We demonstrated that the 
morphology of the substrate changes after contact with live larvae, indicating 
some plasticizing action by an excreted liquid. This indicates a mechanism of 
degradation involving more than the gut microbiome alone. Using streamlined life 
cycle assessment and techno-economic analysis (LCA/TEA) methods, we showed that 
the application of these findings as either a remediation or management 
technology for waste plastics is highly unlikely, given the conversion to 
microplastics, the absence of valuable products, and the high energy cost. 
However, the conversion mechanism should be further elucidated for 
bio-functionalization of liquid alkanes as high-value application, or to 
mitigate plastic anomalies in composting/digesting food waste.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.139521
PMID: 32470676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


112. Environ Pollut. 2020 Sep;264:114740. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114740. Epub 
2020 May 6.

Effects of polystyrene diet on Tenebrio molitor larval growth, development and 
survival: Dynamic Energy Budget (DEB) model analysis.

Matyja K(1), Rybak J(2), Hanus-Lorenz B(3), Wróbel M(2), Rutkowski R(2).

Author information:
(1)Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Chemistry, Division 
of Bioprocess and Biomedical Engineering, ul. Norwida 4/6, 50-373, Wrocław, 
Poland. Electronic address: konrad.matyja@pwr.edu.pl.
(2)Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Environmental 
Engineering, Wybrzeże Wyspiańskiego 27, 50-370, Wrocław, Poland.
(3)Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Environmental 
Engineering, Wybrzeże Wyspiańskiego 27, 50-370, Wrocław, Poland; Wroclaw 
University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Fundamental Problems of 
Technology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wybrzeże Wyspiańskiego 27, 
50-370, Wrocław, Poland.

The presence of polystyrene (PS) waste increases constantly. Styrofoam, the most 
popular form of PS, is one of the major plastic pollutants in the environment. 
An efficient and environmentally friendly method of PS recycling is still 
needed. The biodegradation of PS by insects has been presented by researchers as 
a promising alternative to chemical, mechanical and thermal methods. The main 
aim of this study was to assess the survival, growth, and development of yellow 
mealworms (the larvae of Tenebrio molitor) fed with PS to determine if the 
insects are able to use PS as a source of mass and energy. The Dynamic Energy 
Budget (DEB) model was used to analyze the effects of food type on the growth 
trajectory and metabolism of tested organisms. We investigated five possible 
modes of influence of PS diet on DEB model parameters including a decrease of 
food availability, an increase in somatic maintenance power, an increase in 
costs for structure, allocation of energy, and a decrease in somatic maintenance 
power. Our results show that changes in the development of larvae fed with PS 
are mainly caused by a decrease in reserves density and reaction of the organism 
to the insufficient food supply. The inability or difficulty in completing the 
life cycle of T. molitor larvae fed with PS raises doubts about the use of 
mealworms as an effective technology for utilizing polystyrene.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114740
PMID: 32416426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this 
article.


113. Environ Pollut. 2020 Jul;262:114281. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114281. Epub 
2020 Feb 27.

A comprehensive assessment of microbiome diversity in Tenebrio molitor fed with 
polystyrene waste.

Urbanek AK(1), Rybak J(2), Wróbel M(2), Leluk K(2), Mirończuk AM(3).

Author information:
(1)Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Department of 
Biotechnology and Food Microbiology, Chełmońskiego 37, 51-630, Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Wroclaw University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Environmental 
Engineering, Wybrzeże Wyspiańskiego 27, 50-370, Wrocław, Poland.
(3)Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Department of 
Biotechnology and Food Microbiology, Chełmońskiego 37, 51-630, Wrocław, Poland. 
Electronic address: aleksandra.mironczuk@upwr.edu.pl.

Recently it was demonstrated that mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) larvae consume and 
biodegrade polystyrene. Thus, in this study a breeding investigation with 
various types of polystyrene was performed to follow the changes in the gut 
microbiome diversity. Polystyrene used for packaging purposes (PSp) and expanded 
polystyrene (EPS) were perceived as more favorable and attacked more frequently 
by mealworms compared to raw polystyrene (PS) and material commercially 
available for parcels (PSp). Although our studies showed that larvae could bite 
and chew selected materials, they are not able to degrade and use them for 
consumption purposes. In a next-generation sequencing experiment, among all 
samples, seven classes, Gammaproteobacteria, Bacilli, Clostridia, Acidobacteria, 
Actinobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria and Flavobacteria, were indicated as the 
most abundant, whereas the predominant genera were Enterobacter, Lactococcus and 
Enterococcus. Additionally, we isolated three bacteria strains able to use 
diverse types of bioplastic as a sole carbon source. The strains with 
biodegradable activity against bioplastic were identified as species of the 
genera Klebsiella, Pseudomonas and Serratia. The presence of a bacterial strain 
able to degrade bioplastic may suggest a potential niche for further 
investigations.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114281
PMID: 32146369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The author(s) 
declare no competing interests.


114. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Mar 15;708:135233. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135233. 
Epub 2019 Nov 22.

Biodegradation and mineralization of polystyrene by plastic-eating superworms 
Zophobas atratus.

Yang Y(1), Wang J(2), Xia M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing 100081, PR China. Electronic address: yooyoung@bit.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Biology, School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing 100081, PR China.

Polystyrene (PS) is one of the major plastic debris accumulated in environment. 
Previously, we reported that mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) was capable of 
degrading and mineralizing Styrofoam (PS foam). This finding arouses our 
curiosity to explore whether more other insect species have the same capability 
as mealworms. Here, an insect larva, superworm (Zophobas atratus), was newly 
proven to be capable of eating, degrading and mineralizing PS. Superworms could 
live with Styrofoam as sole diet as well as those fed with a normal diet (bran) 
over a 28-day period. The average consumption rate of Styrofoam for each 
superworm was estimated at 0.58 mg/d that was 4 times more than that of 
mealworm. Analyses of frass, using gel permeation chromatography (GPC), 
solid-state 13C cross-polarization/magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic 
resonance (CP/MAS NMR) spectroscopy, and thermogravimetric interfaced with 
Fourier transform infrared (TG-FTIR) spectroscopy, demonstrated that the 
depolymerization of long-chain PS molecules and the formation of low 
molecular-weight products occurred in the larval gut. A respirometry test showed 
that up to 36.7% of the ingested Styrofoam carbon was converted into CO2 during 
a 16-day test period. The PS-degrading capability of superworm was inhibited by 
the antibiotic suppression of gut microbiota, indicating that gut microbiota 
contributed to PS degradation. This new finding extends the PS-degrading insects 
beyond the species within the Tenebrio genus and indicates that the gut 
microbiota of superworm would be a novel bioresource for pursuit of 
plastic-degrading enzymes.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135233
PMID: 31787276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Environ Pollut. 2020 Jan;256:113265. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2019.113265. Epub 
2019 Sep 24.

Changes in the gut microbiome and enzymatic profile of Tenebrio molitor larvae 
biodegrading cellulose, polyethylene and polystyrene waste.

Przemieniecki SW(1), Kosewska A(2), Ciesielski S(3), Kosewska O(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Phytopathology and Molecular Diagnostics, Faculty 
of Environmental Management and Agriculture, University of Warmia and Mazury in 
Olsztyn, Prawocheńskiego 17, 10-720, Olsztyn, Poland. Electronic address: 
sebastian.przemieniecki@uwm.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Entomology, Phytopathology and Molecular Diagnostics, Faculty 
of Environmental Management and Agriculture, University of Warmia and Mazury in 
Olsztyn, Prawocheńskiego 17, 10-720, Olsztyn, Poland.
(3)Department of Environmental Biotechnology, Faculty of Environmental Sciences, 
University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, Słoneczna 45G, 10-917, Olsztyn, 
Poland.

Recent studies have demonstrated the ability of mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) for 
plastic degradation. This study is focused on changes in microbiome structure 
depending on diets. Microbial community obtained from oat and cellulose diet 
formed similar group, two kinds of polyethylene formed another group, while 
polystyrene diet showed the highest dissimilarity. The highest relative 
abundance of bacteria colonizing gut was in PE-oxodegradable feeding, 
nevertheless all applied diets were higher in comparison to oat. Dominant phyla 
consisted of Proteobacteria, Bacteroides, Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, however 
after PS feeding frequency in Planctomycetes and Nitrospirae increased. The 
unique bacteria characteristic for cellulose diet belonged to Selenomonas, while 
Pantoea were characteristic for both polyethylene diets, Lactococcus and 
Elizabethkingia were unique for each plastic diet, and potential diazotropic 
bacteria were characteristic for polystyrene diet (Agrobacterium, Nitrosomonas, 
Nitrospira). Enzymatic similarity between oatmeal and cellulose diets, was 
shown. All three plastics diet resulted in different activity in both, digestive 
tract and bacteria. The enzymes with the highest activity were included 
phosphatases, esterases, leucine arylamidase, β-galactosidase, β-glucuronidase, 
α-glucosidase, β-glucosidase, chitinase, α-mannosidase and α-fucosidase. The 
activity of digestive tract was stronger than cultured gut bacteria. In addition 
to known polyethylene degradation methods, larvae may degrade polyethylene with 
esterase, cellulose and oatmeal waste activity is related with the activity of 
sugar-degrading enzymes, degradation of polystyrene with anaerobic processes and 
diazotrophs.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2019.113265
PMID: 31733968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Feb;70(2):790-796. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003826.

Mixta tenebrionis sp. nov., isolated from the gut of the plastic-eating mealworm 
Tenebrio molitor L.

Xia M(1), Wang J(1), Huo YX(1)(2), Yang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing 100081, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Biotherapy, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing 100081, PR China.

A bacterial strain, BIT-26T, was isolated from the gut of plastic-eating 
mealworm Tenebrio molitor L. The taxonomic position of this new isolate was 
investigated by using a polyphasic approach. Cells of the strain were 
Gram-stain-negative, facultatively anaerobic, motile rods with peritrichous 
flagella. The 16S rRNA gene sequence (1412 bp) of strain BIT-26T showed the 
highest similarity (97.4 %) to Erwinia piriflorinigrans CFBP 5888T, followed by 
Citrobacter sedlakii NBRC 105722T (97.3 %), Mixta calida LMG 25383T (97.3 %), 
Cronobacter muytjensii ATCC 51329T (97.2 %) and Mixta theicola QC88-366 T 
(97.2 %). The results of phylogenetic analyses, based on the 16S rRNA gene and 
concatenated sequences of four housekeeping genes (atpD﻿, gyrB, infB ﻿and rpoB), 
placed strain BIT-26T within the genus Mixta of the family Erwiniaceae. This 
affiliation was also supported by the chemotaxonomic data. Strain BIT-26T had 
similar predominant fatty acids, including C12 : 0, C14 : 0, C16 : 0, C17 : 0 
cyclo and C19 : 0 cyclo ω8c, to species of the genus Mixta. In silico DNA-DNA 
hybridization and average nucleotide identity calculations plus physiological 
and biochemical tests allowed the genotypic and phenotypic differentiation of 
strain BIT-26T from other species of the genus Mixta with validly published 
names. Therefore, strain BIT-26T is considered to represent a novel species, for 
which the name Mixta tenebrionis sp. nov is proposed. The type strain is BIT-26T 
(=CGMCC 1.17041T=KCTC 72449T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003826
PMID: 31675291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2019 Nov 15;183:109461. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.109461. Epub 2019 Aug 1.

Polyurethane foam induces epigenetic modification of mitochondrial DNA during 
different metamorphic stages of Tenebrio molitor.

Guo B(1), Yin J(2), Hao W(3), Jiao M(3).

Author information:
(1)Academy of National Food and Strategic Reserves Administration, China. 
Electronic address: guoby@rcees.ac.cn.
(2)Ying Da Chang An Insurance Brokers Group CO.,LTD, Beijing, 100052, China.
(3)Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, 100085, China.

The present work investigated the changes in DNA methylation pattern of Tenebrio 
molitor mitochondria genome at different development stages, which was fed with 
polyurethane foam as a sole diet. Polyurethane foam could influence the global 
methylation levels in mitochondria DNA of Tenebrio molitor. Different leves of 
5-methylcytosine appeared at CpG and non-CpG sites of Tenebrio molitor mtDNA 
while they were fed with polyurethane foam: 10 CpG and 49 non-CpG sites at 
larval stage, 4 CpG and 31 non-CpG sites at pupa stage, 7 CpG and 56 non-CpG 
sites at adult stage in general. Moreover, we observed the decreased levels of 
ATP generation with the mitochondria DNA methylation variation. The results 
demonstrated that mitochondria DNA gene could be methylated in response to 
environmental pollutants to modulate stage-specific functions. Moreover, mtDNA 
methylation of polyurethane-foam-feeding Tenebrio molitor existed discrepancy in 
the developmental stage. The tentative methylation mechanism of mtDNA might be 
that polyurethane foam induced oxidative stress and increased the permeability 
of mitochondrial membranes, which resulted in transmethylase entry into 
mitochondria.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.109461
PMID: 31377519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Animals (Basel). 2019 Jul 25;9(8):484. doi: 10.3390/ani9080484.

Former Foodstuff Products in Tenebrio Molitor Rearing: Effects on Growth, 
Chemical Composition, Microbiological Load, and Antioxidant Status.

Mancini S(1), Fratini F(2)(3), Turchi B(2), Mattioli S(4), Dal Bosco A(4), 
Tuccinardi T(5), Nozic S(2)(5), Paci G(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Sciences, University of Pisa, Viale delle Piagge 2, 
56124 Pisa, Italy. simone.mancini@for.unipi.it.
(2)Department of Veterinary Sciences, University of Pisa, Viale delle Piagge 2, 
56124 Pisa, Italy.
(3)Interdepartmental Research Center "Nutraceuticals and Food for Health", 
University of Pisa, Via del Borghetto 80, 56124 Pisa, Italy.
(4)Department of Agricultural, Food and Environmental Science, University of 
Perugia, Borgo XX Giugno 74, 06100 Perugia, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, University of Pisa, Via Bonanno 6, 56124 Pisa, Italy.

Tenebrio molitor (mealworm) larvae represent one of the most interesting edible 
insects and could be reared on alternative feeds, such as former foodstuff 
products (FFPs). In the present work, five different FFPs (brewery spent grains, 
bread and cookie leftovers, and mixes of brewer's spent grain or bread with 
cookies) were employed as feeding substrates. Larvae's growth performances, 
chemical composition, microbial loads, and antioxidant status were determined. 
Chemical compositions of the substrates affected all the tested parameters. 
Brewery spent grains-fed larvae showed a faster growth period and higher crude 
protein and carbohydrate contents. The use of cookies as a single substrate or 
their addition to spent grains or bread increased the lipids contents, while 
growth was delayed. Microbial loads were partially affected by the fed diet. The 
antioxidant status of larvae showed different concentrations of tocopherols 
isoforms (δ, γ, α) in relation to the diet; however, no differences were 
detected in relation to the global antioxidant capacity (2,2-azinobis-(3 
ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid), ABTS reducing activity; 
1,1-diphenyl-2-pircydrazyl, DPPH radical scavenging activity; ferric reducing 
ability, FRAP). Results point out a high plasticity of mealworm larvae and the 
potential to tailor the final outcomes in relation to the substrate employed. 
Mealworms could be practically reared on FFPs to produce food-feed with high 
nutrient values.

DOI: 10.3390/ani9080484
PMCID: PMC6720556
PMID: 31349633

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


119. Environ Sci Technol. 2019 May 7;53(9):5256-5265. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.8b06963. 
Epub 2019 Apr 23.

Biodegradation of Polystyrene by Dark ( Tenebrio obscurus) and Yellow ( Tenebrio 
molitor) Mealworms (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae).

Peng BY(1), Su Y(1)(2), Chen Z(1), Chen J(1), Zhou X(1), Benbow ME(3), Criddle 
CS(4), Wu WM(4), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering , Tongji University , Shanghai 200092 , 
China.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering , University of California 
, Los Angeles , California 90095 , United States.
(3)Department of Entomology, Department of Osteopathic Medical Specialties , 
Michigan State University , East Lansing , Michigan 48824 , United States.
(4)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness , Stanford University , Stanford , California 94305-4020 , 
United States.

Yellow mealworms (larvae of Tenebrio molitor, Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) have 
been proven to be capable of biodegrading polystyrene (PS) products. Using four 
geographic sources, we found that dark mealworms (larvae of Tenebrio obscurus) 
ate PS as well. We subsequently tested T. obscurus from Shandong, China for PS 
degradation capability. Our results demonstrated the ability for PS degradation 
within the gut of T. obscurus at greater rates than T. molitor. With expanded PS 
foam as the sole diet, the specific PS consumption rates for T. obscurus and T. 
molitor at similar sizes (2.0 cm, 62-64 mg per larva) were 32.44 ± 0.51 and 
24.30 ± 1.34 mg 100 larvae-1 d-1, respectively. After 31 days, the molecular 
weight ( Mn) of residual PS in frass (excrement) of T. obscurus decreased by 
26.03%, remarkably higher than that of T. molitor (11.67%). Fourier transform 
infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) indicated formation of functional groups of 
intermediates and chemical modification. Thermo gravimetric analysis (TGA) 
suggested that T. obscurus larvae degraded PS effectively based on the 
proportion of PS residue. Co-fed corn flour to T. obscurus and wheat bran to T. 
molitor increased total PS consumption by 11.6% and 15.2%, respectively. 
Antibiotic gentamicin almost completely inhibited PS depolymerization. 
High-throughput sequencing revealed significant shifts in the gut microbial 
community in both Tenebrio species that were associated with the PS diet and PS 
biodegradation, with changes in three predominant families (Enterobacteriaceae, 
Spiroplasmataceae, and Enterococcaceae). The results indicate that PS 
biodegradability may be ubiquitous within the Tenebrio genus which could provide 
a bioresource for plastic waste biodegradation.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.8b06963
PMID: 30990998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Front Physiol. 2019 Mar 12;10:138. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2019.00138. eCollection 
2019.

Immune Defenses of a Beneficial Pest: The Mealworm Beetle, Tenebrio molitor.

Vigneron A(1), Jehan C(2), Rigaud T(2), Moret Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases, Yale School of Public 
Health, New Haven, CT, United States.
(2)UMR CNRS 6282 BioGéoSciences, Équipe Écologie Évolutive, Université 
Bourgogne-Franche Comté, Dijon, France.

The mealworm beetle, Tenebrio molitor, is currently considered as a pest when 
infesting stored grains or grain products. However, mealworms are now being 
promoted as a beneficial insect because their high nutrient content makes them a 
viable food source and because they are capable of degrading polystyrene and 
plastic waste. These attributes make T. molitor attractive for mass rearing, 
which may promote disease transmission within the insect colonies. Disease 
resistance is of paramount importance for both the control and the culture of 
mealworms, and several biotic and abiotic environmental factors affect the 
success of their anti-parasitic defenses, both positively and negatively. After 
providing a detailed description of T. molitor's anti-parasitic defenses, we 
review the main biotic and abiotic environmental factors that alter their 
presentation, and we discuss their implications for the purpose of controlling 
the development and health of this insect.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2019.00138
PMCID: PMC6422893
PMID: 30914960


121. J Appl Microbiol. 2019 Jan;126(1):155-164. doi: 10.1111/jam.14137. Epub 2018 Nov 
20.

A nonconventional two-stage fermentation system for the production of aerial 
conidia of entomopathogenic fungi utilizing surface tension.

Lopes RB(1), Faria M(1), Glare TR(2).

Author information:
(1)EMBRAPA Genetic Resources and Biotechnology, Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University, Lincoln, New Zealand.

AIM: To describe a new approach in which production of conidia of an 
entomopathogenic fungus takes place on the surface of an unstirred shallow 
liquid culture kept in nonabsorbent wells distributed in plastic sheets 
resembling a honeycomb.
METHODS AND RESULTS: First, liquid incubation time and medium composition for 
production of Beauveria bassiana aerial conidia were optimized. Wells inoculated 
with Sabouraud dextrose yeast extract produced 2·2 × 108 conidia per cm2 of 
liquid surface following 5 days of incubation. Finally, tests were carried out 
in a prototype comprised of stacked plastic sheets in a cylindrical container. 
Conidia production on liquid culture surface varied from 1·2 to 1·6 × 109 
conidia per ml of fermented broth. Germination rates and insect activity towards 
Tenebrio molitor larvae were not negatively affected when compared to conidia 
produced on solid medium.
CONCLUSIONS: The two-stage fermentation process here described, based on a 
simple nonabsorbent inert support, has potential for the application in the 
production of aerial conidia of B. bassiana and other fungi.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Aerial conidia are the most extensive 
propagule type used in commercial mycopesticides, traditionally produced by 
solid-state fermentation (SSF). The industrial applications and other important 
benefits of the two-stage fermentation process here described may overcome some 
hurdles inherent to SSF aiming for the production of aerial conidia. 
Additionally, production consistency is increased by the use of chemically 
defined medium, and the better control of the environmental conditions could 
allow for more reproducible industrial batches.

© 2018 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.14137
PMID: 30353989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Chemosphere. 2018 Dec;212:262-271. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2018.08.078. Epub 
2018 Aug 18.

Ubiquity of polystyrene digestion and biodegradation within yellow mealworms, 
larvae of Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae).

Yang SS(1), Wu WM(2), Brandon AM(3), Fan HQ(3), Receveur JP(4), Li Y(1), Wang 
ZY(3), Fan R(3), McClellan RL(3), Gao SH(5), Ning D(5), Phillips DH(6), Peng 
BY(7), Wang H(7), Cai SY(7), Li P(7), Cai WW(8), Ding LY(9), Yang J(10), Zheng 
M(11), Ren J(7), Zhang YL(7), Gao J(12), Xing D(8), Ren NQ(8), Waymouth RM(3), 
Zhou J(5), Tao HC(9), Picard CJ(13), Benbow ME(4), Criddle CS(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Chemistry, 
William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable 
Development & Global Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, 
USA; State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environmental Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 
150090, China.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Chemistry, 
William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable 
Development & Global Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, 
USA. Electronic address: billwu@stanford.edu.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Chemistry, 
William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable 
Development & Global Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, 
USA.
(4)Department of Entomology, Department of Osteopathic Medical Specialties, 
Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA.
(5)Institute for Environmental Genomics, Department of Microbiology and Plant 
Biology and School of Civil Engineering and Environmental Sciences, University 
of Oklahoma, Norman, OK 73019, USA.
(6)School of Natural and Built Environment, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, 
BT9 5AG Northern Ireland, UK.
(7)School of Material Science and Engineering, School of Environmental Science 
and Engineering, School of Life Science, Tongji University, Shanghai 201804, 
China.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, School of 
Environmental Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 
150090, China.
(9)School of Environment and Energy, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School, 
Shenzhen 518055, China.
(10)School of Chemistry, Beihang University, Beijing 100191, China.
(11)Advanced Water Management Centre, The University of Queensland, St. Lucia, 
QLD 4072, Australia.
(12)Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing 100085, China.
(13)Department of Biology, IUPUI, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(14)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Chemistry, 
William & Cloy Codiga Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable 
Development & Global Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, 
USA. Electronic address: criddle@stanford.edu.

Academics researchers and "citizen scientists" from 22 countries confirmed that 
yellow mealworms, the larvae of Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus, can survive by eating 
polystyrene (PS) foam. More detailed assessments of this capability for 
mealworms were carried out by12 sources: five from the USA, six from China, and 
one from Northern Ireland. All of these mealworms digested PS foam. PS mass 
decreased and depolymerization was observed, with appearance of lower molecular 
weight residuals and functional groups indicative of oxidative transformations 
in extracts from the frass (insect excrement). An addition of gentamycin 
(30 mg g-1), a bactericidal antibiotic, inhibited depolymerization, implicating 
the gut microbiome in the biodegradation process. Microbial community analyses 
demonstrated significant taxonomic shifts for mealworms fed diets of PS plus 
bran and PS alone. The results indicate that mealworms from diverse locations 
eat and metabolize PS and support the hypothesis that this capacity is 
independent of the geographic origin of the mealworms, and is likely ubiquitous 
to members of this species.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2018.08.078
PMID: 30145418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Environ Geochem Health. 2019 Feb;41(1):17-26. doi: 10.1007/s10653-018-0161-5. 
Epub 2018 Jul 28.

Feeding and metabolism effects of three common microplastics on Tenebrio molitor 
L.

Wu Q(1), Tao H(2), Wong MH(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Shenzhen Key Laboratory for Heavy Metal Treatment and Reutilization, School 
of Environment and Energy, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School, Shenzhen, 
518055, China.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory for Heavy Metal Treatment and Reutilization, School 
of Environment and Energy, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School, Shenzhen, 
518055, China. taohc@pkusz.edu.cn.
(3)Consortium on Health, Environment, Education and Research (CHEER), The 
Education University of Hong Kong, Tai Po, Hong Kong, China.

Mealworms from three different regions: Guangzhou, Tai'an and Shenzhen, were fed 
with three commonly used microplastics of polystyrene (PS), polyvinyl chloride 
(PVC) and low-density polyethylene (LDPE) for 1 month under favorable 
conditions, respectively. The survival rate and average weight of mealworms, the 
mass loss of microplastics and the production of frass were recorded every 
4 days. Samples collected were characterized by X-ray diffraction, fourier 
transform infrared spectroscopy, thermogravimetric analyzer and gel permeation 
chromatography. The results showed that mealworms from Tai'an and Shenzhen could 
effectively metabolize the whole microplastics tested, while those from 
Guangzhou could only metabolize PS and LDPE. Besides, LDPE could be degraded by 
mealworms from Tai'an and Shenzhen, while those from Guangzhou showed no such 
capability, indicating that mealworms from different regions present different 
metabolism effects. Furthermore, PS and LDPE are more likely to be metabolized 
compared with PVC.

DOI: 10.1007/s10653-018-0161-5
PMID: 30056553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Environ Sci Technol. 2018 Jun 5;52(11):6526-6533. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.8b02301. 
Epub 2018 May 23.

Biodegradation of Polyethylene and Plastic Mixtures in Mealworms (Larvae of 
Tenebrio molitor) and Effects on the Gut Microbiome.

Brandon AM(1), Gao SH(2), Tian R(2), Ning D(2)(3), Yang SS(1), Zhou J(2)(3)(4), 
Wu WM(1), Criddle CS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering , Stanford University , 
Stanford , California 94305-4020 , United States.
(2)Institute for Environmental Genomics, Consolidated Core Laboratory, 
Department of Microbiology and Plant Biology, and School of Civil Engineering 
and Environmental Science , University of Oklahoma , Norman , Oklahoma 73019 , 
United States.
(3)State Key Joint Laboratory of Environmental Simulation and Pollution Control, 
School of Environment , Tsinghua University , Beijing 100084 , China.
(4)Earth and Environmental Sciences , Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory , 
Berkeley , California 94720 , United States.

Recent studies have demonstrated the ability for polystyrene (PS) degradation 
within the gut of mealworms ( Tenebrio molitor). To determine whether plastics 
may be broadly susceptible to biodegradation within mealworms, we evaluated the 
fate of polyethylene (PE) and mixtures (PE + PS). We find that PE biodegrades at 
comparable rates to PS. Mass balances indicate conversion of up 49.0 ± 1.4% of 
the ingested PE into a putative gas fraction (CO2). The molecular weights ( Mn) 
of egested polymer residues decreased by 40.1 ± 8.5% in PE-fed mealworms and by 
12.8 ± 3.1% in PS-fed mealworms. NMR and FTIR analyses revealed chemical 
modifications consistent with degradation and partial oxidation of the polymer. 
Mixtures likewise degraded. Our results are consistent with a nonspecific 
degradation mechanism. Analysis of the gut microbiome by next-generation 
sequencing revealed two OTUs ( Citrobacter sp. and Kosakonia sp.) strongly 
associated with both PE and PS as well as OTUs unique to each plastic. Our 
results suggest that adaptability of the mealworm gut microbiome enables 
degradation of chemically dissimilar plastics.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.8b02301
PMID: 29763555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Chemosphere. 2018 Jan;191:979-989. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2017.10.117. Epub 
2017 Oct 23.

Biodegradation of polystyrene wastes in yellow mealworms (larvae of Tenebrio 
molitor Linnaeus): Factors affecting biodegradation rates and the ability of 
polystyrene-fed larvae to complete their life cycle.

Yang SS(1), Brandon AM(2), Andrew Flanagan JC(3), Yang J(4), Ning D(5), Cai 
SY(6), Fan HQ(2), Wang ZY(2), Ren J(6), Benbow E(7), Ren NQ(8), Waymouth RM(3), 
Zhou J(5), Criddle CS(9), Wu WM(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, USA; State Key 
Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, Harbin Institute of 
Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, USA.
(4)School of Chemistry, Beihang University, Beijing 100191, China.
(5)Institute for Environmental Genomics, Department of Microbiology and Plant 
Biology and School of Civil Engineering and Environmental Sciences, University 
of Oklahoma, Norman, OK 73019, USA.
(6)Institute of Nano- and Bio-polymeric Materials Science and Engineering, Key 
Laboratory of Advanced Civil Engineering Materials of Ministry of Education, 
School of Material Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 201804, 
China.
(7)Department of Entomology and Department of Osteopathic Medical Specialties, 
Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment, Harbin 
Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(9)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, USA. Electronic 
address: criddle@stanford.edu.
(10)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, USA. Electronic 
address: billwu@stanford.edu.

Commercial production of polystyrene (PS) -a persistent plastic that is not 
biodegradable at appreciable rates in most environments-has led to its 
accumulation as a major contaminant of land, rivers, lakes, and oceans. 
Recently, however, an environment was identified in which PS is susceptible to 
rapid biodegradation: the larval gut of Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus (yellow 
mealworms). In this study, we evaluate PS degradation capabilities of a 
previously untested strain of T. molitor and assess its survival and PS 
biodegradation rates for a range of conditions (two simulated food wastes, three 
temperatures, seven PS waste types). For larvae fed PS alone, the %PS removed in 
the short (12-15 h) residence time of the mealworm gut gradually increased for 
2-3 weeks then stabilized at values up to 65%. Thirty two-day survival rates 
were >85% versus 54% for unfed larvae. For mealworms fed ∼10% w/w PS and ∼90% 
bran, an agricultural byproduct, rates of PS degradation at 25 °C nearly doubled 
compared to mealworms fed PS alone. Polymer residues in the frass showed 
evidence of partial depolymerization and oxidation. All of the tested PS wastes 
degraded, with the less dense foams degrading most rapidly. Mealworms fed bran 
and PS completed all life cycle stages (larvae, pupae, beetles, egg), and the 
second generation had favorable PS degradation, opening the door for selective 
breeding.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2017.10.117
PMID: 29145143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. J Biotechnol. 2018 Jan 10;265:31-39. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.10.017. Epub 
2017 Oct 31.

An integrative study on biologically recovered polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) and 
simultaneous assessment of gut microbiome in yellow mealworm.

Ong SY(1), Kho HP(1), Riedel SL(2), Kim SW(3), Gan CY(4), Taylor TD(3), Sudesh 
K(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800 Penang, 
Malaysia.
(2)Chair of Bioprocess Engineering, Technische Universität Berlin, Ackerstrasse 
76 ACK 24, 13355 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Laboratory for Integrated Bioinformatics, RIKEN Center for Integrative 
Medical Sciences, Yokohama, Japan.
(4)Analytical Biochemistry Research Centre, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800 
Penang, Malaysia.
(5)School of Biological Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800 Penang, 
Malaysia. Electronic address: ksudesh@usm.my.

Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) are produced in microbes as a source of carbon and 
energy storage. They are biodegradable and have properties similar to synthetic 
plastics, which make them an interesting alternative to petroleum-based 
plastics. In this study, a refined method of recovering PHA from Cupriavidus 
necator biomass was proposed by incorporating the use of the yellow mealworm 
(the larval phase of the mealworm beetle, Tenebrio molitor) as partial 
purification machinery, followed by washing of the fecal pellets with distilled 
water and sodium hydroxide. The PHA contents of the cells used in this study 
were 55wt% (produced from palm olein) and 60 wt% (produced from waste animal 
fats). The treatment of distilled water and NaOH further increased the purity of 
PHA to 94%. In parallel, analysis of the 16S rRNA metagenomic sequencing of the 
mealworm gut microbiome has revealed remarkable changes in the bacterial 
diversity, especially between the mealworms fed with cells produced from palm 
olein and waste animal fats. This biological recovery of PHA from cells is an 
attempt to move towards a green and sustainable process with the aim of reducing 
the use of harmful solvents and strong chemicals during polymer purification. 
The results obtained show that - purities of >90%, without a reduction in the 
molecular weight, can be obtained through this integrative biological recovery 
approach. In addition, this study has successfully shown that the cells, 
regardless of their origins, were readily consumed by the mealworms, and there 
is a correlation between the feed type and the mealworm gut microbiome.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.10.017
PMID: 29101024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Oecologia. 2017 Nov;185(3):401-413. doi: 10.1007/s00442-017-3959-4. Epub 2017 
Sep 20.

Temperature-driven plasticity in nutrient use and preference in an ectotherm.

Rho MS(1), Lee KP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Seoul National University, Seoul, 
08826, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Seoul National University, Seoul, 
08826, Republic of Korea. kwanglee@snu.ac.kr.

Environmental temperature has strong effects on the rate and efficiency of 
resource use in ectotherms, but little is known about how changes in temperature 
influence their diet selection patterns. Changes in temperature may alter the 
balance of nutrients required by ectotherms by affecting metabolism. In response 
to temperature changes, ectotherms are predicted to express a preference for a 
specific nutrient (protein or carbohydrate) to match their altered nutrient 
requirement. Here, we examined the nutritional consequences of mealworm beetles 
(Tenebrio molitor L.) that were constrained to diets varying in 
protein:carbohydrate balance (P:C = 1:5, 1:1, or 5:1) or offered a choice 
between two nutritionally complementary diets (1:5 vs. 5:1) at four different 
temperatures (20, 25, 30, or 35 °C). Beetles had high mortality and reduced body 
mass at higher temperatures. Post-ingestive use efficiencies of both protein and 
carbohydrate decreased as temperature rose. Warming-driven decrease in 
carbohydrate use efficiencies occurred most profoundly when carbohydrates were 
consumed excessively. When given a choice, beetles selected protein and 
carbohydrate equally at 25 and 30 °C, but exhibited a significant preference for 
carbohydrate at 35 °C. Since carbohydrate is an immediate source of energy, this 
warming-driven preference for carbohydrate is explicable as an adaptive response 
of beetles to meet increased energy needs at high temperature. Beetles exposed 
to 20 °C ate substantially less food, but preferentially consumed carbohydrate 
over protein possibly to cope with reduced energy intake. The present findings 
have implications for the impact of temperature on foraging and resource use in 
ectotherms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-017-3959-4
PMID: 28932986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1477:61-9. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6367-6_6.

Production of Conidia by the Fungus Metarhizium anisopliae Using Solid-State 
Fermentation.

Loera-Corral O(1), Porcayo-Loza J(1), Montesinos-Matias R(2), Favela-Torres 
E(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biotecnología Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa, 
Av. San Rafael Atlixco No186, Col. Vicentina, C.P. 09340, Mexico.
(2)Centro Nacional de Referencia de Control Biológico, Tecomán, Colima, Mexico.
(3)Departamento de Biotecnología Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa, 
Av. San Rafael Atlixco No186, Col. Vicentina, C.P. 09340, Mexico. 
favela@xanum.uam.mx.

This chapter describes the production of conidia by Metarhizium anisopliae using 
solid-state fermentation. Before production of conidia, procedures for strains 
conservation, reactivation, and propagation are essential in order to provide 
genetic stability of the strains. The strain is conserved in freeze-dried vials 
and then reactivated through insect inoculation. Rice is used as a substrate for 
the conidia production in two different bioreactors: plastic bags and tubular 
bioreactor. The CO2 production in the tubular bioreactors is measured with a 
respirometer; this system allows calculating indirect growth parameters as lag 
time (tlag) (25-35 h), maximum rate of CO2 production (rCO2 max) (0.5-0.7 mg/gdm 
h), specific rate of CO2 production (μ) (0.10-0.15 1/h), and final CO2 
production (CO2) (100-120 mg/gdm). Conidial yield per gram of dry substrate 
(gdm) should be above 1 × 10(9) conidia/gdm after 10 days of incubation. 
Germination and viability of conidia obtained after 10 days of incubation should 
be above 80 % and 75 %, respectively. Bioassays using of Tenebrio molitor as a 
host insect should yield a final mortality above 80 %.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6367-6_6
PMID: 27565492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Environ Sci Technol. 2015 Oct 20;49(20):12087-93. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.5b02663. 
Epub 2015 Oct 1.

Biodegradation and Mineralization of Polystyrene by Plastic-Eating Mealworms: 
Part 2. Role of Gut Microorganisms.

Yang Y, Yang J, Wu WM(1), Zhao J(2), Song Y, Gao L, Yang R(2), Jiang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Research Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University , Stanford, California 94305-4020, United 
States.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Bioenergy, BGI-Shenzhen , Shenzhen, Guangdong 
518083, People's Republic of China.

The role of gut bacteria of mealworms (the larvae of Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus) 
in polystyrene (PS) degradation was investigated. Gentamicin was the most 
effective inhibitor of gut bacteria among six antibiotics tested. Gut bacterial 
activities were essentially suppressed by feeding gentamicin food (30 mg/g) for 
10 days. Gentamicin-feeding mealworms lost the ability to depolymerize PS and 
mineralize PS into CO2, as determined by characterizing worm fecula and feeding 
with (13)C-labeled PS. A PS-degrading bacterial strain was isolated from the 
guts of the mealworms, Exiguobacterium sp. strain YT2, which could form biofilm 
on PS film over a 28 day incubation period and made obvious pits and cavities 
(0.2-0.3 mm in width) on PS film surfaces associated with decreases in 
hydrophobicity and the formation of C-O polar groups. A suspension culture of 
strain YT2 (10(8) cells/mL) was able to degrade 7.4 ± 0.4% of the PS pieces 
(2500 mg/L) over a 60 day incubation period. The molecular weight of the 
residual PS pieces was lower, and the release of water-soluble daughter products 
was detected. The results indicated the essential role of gut bacteria in PS 
biodegradation and mineralization, confirmed the presence of PS-degrading gut 
bacteria, and demonstrated the biodegradation of PS by mealworms.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.5b02663
PMID: 26390390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Environ Sci Technol. 2015 Oct 20;49(20):12080-6. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.5b02661. 
Epub 2015 Oct 1.

Biodegradation and Mineralization of Polystyrene by Plastic-Eating Mealworms: 
Part 1. Chemical and Physical Characterization and Isotopic Tests.

Yang Y, Yang J, Wu WM(1), Zhao J(2), Song Y, Gao L, Yang R(2), Jiang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Research Center, Center for Sustainable Development & Global 
Competitiveness, Stanford University , Stanford, California 94305-4020, United 
States.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Bioenergy, BGI-Shenzhen , Shenzhen, Guangdong 
518083, People's Republic of China.

Polystyrene (PS) is generally considered to be durable and resistant to 
biodegradation. Mealworms (the larvae of Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus) from 
different sources chew and eat Styrofoam, a common PS product. The Styrofoam was 
efficiently degraded in the larval gut within a retention time of less than 24 
h. Fed with Styrofoam as the sole diet, the larvae lived as well as those fed 
with a normal diet (bran) over a period of 1 month. The analysis of fecula 
egested from Styrofoam-feeding larvae, using gel permeation chromatography 
(GPC), solid-state (13)C cross-polarization/magic angle spinning nuclear 
magnetic resonance (CP/MAS NMR) spectroscopy, and thermogravimetric Fourier 
transform infrared (TG-FTIR) spectroscopy, substantiated that 
cleavage/depolymerization of long-chain PS molecules and the formation of 
depolymerized metabolites occurred in the larval gut. Within a 16 day test 
period, 47.7% of the ingested Styrofoam carbon was converted into CO2 and the 
residue (ca. 49.2%) was egested as fecula with a limited fraction incorporated 
into biomass (ca. 0.5%). Tests with α (13)C- or β (13)C-labeled PS confirmed 
that the (13)C-labeled PS was mineralized to (13)CO2 and incorporated into 
lipids. The discovery of the rapid biodegradation of PS in the larval gut 
reveals a new fate for plastic waste in the environment.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.5b02661
PMID: 26390034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]